I think this [music] bull market and
tech has further to go.
>> The market's clearly looking through the
shortterm uncertainty.
>> The market is telling you, look, this is
still maybe a transitory story.
>> If you are not spending right now,
you're going to be left behind. This
shock really supports the need to
invest.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and Ann Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday, extending the chip rally.
Strong guidance from Intel helping semis
build on a [music] 17-day winning run as
Meta and Microsoft are moving to cut
workers to support big spending. Secare
winds in tech offsetting a cyclical
threat brewing in commodities. Brent
crude up 18% this week.
>> Yeah, it's the biggest uh weekly gain
[music] for Brent for WTI going back to
the week ended March 6th. That was the
first week after the war began. And so
you can see suddenly people worrying
about the stress in the Middle East
coming to roost at least when it comes
to the physical commodity world.
However, when you take a look at stocks,
yes, you're seeing the first loss of for
a week so far in April. Nonetheless, the
loss is minor and you're seeing record
high after record high a number of big
tech stocks. These two themes cannot be
wider apart. And that really is the
tension of the moment.
>> It's the tugof-war, isn't it, right now
between these cyclical tailwinds that
you see in tech and the cyclical threats
coming from commodities. And this week
is a perfect example of that. Do you
want to fight this? The move in Intel
are by [music] close to 30% in the
pre-market. Do you want to fight this?
Texas Instrument with better forecast in
the last week. We talked about Genova,
another AI theme. All of that supporting
tech stocks. It's why the NASDAQ is up
on the week. You look elsewhere though,
the pressure building. 18% move in
crude. And [music] by the way, it's not
just the front month of the futures
curve. It's the summer months as well.
Late into the summer starting to make
new highs too. We've got a bet in this
market that this won't be a prolonged
[music] shot. This will be a transient
story. I just wonder how fragile that
bet is at the moment.
>> Especially because every single
strategist who you talk [music] to says
it's very hard to see how this gets
resolved in any kind of clean way.
Ultimately, do you have this regime
staying in power and you still have some
sort of free travel through the straight
of her? Do you have the idea of mines
that can be removed in a short period of
time to have ships start to go through
again? And how quickly will ships have
the confidence to go back in there if
it's occasionally it's a oh wait what
we're not allowed oh okay we're going to
go over here oh wait a second we just
got blown up. It is not exactly a good
recipe to get confidence of some of the
mariners who are out there on the on the
[music]
>> quick reminder think about where we were
this time last week. This time last week
we were heading into the weekend the
straight of mas was reopening. Look at
where we are a week later. The straight
of form is still closed
>> right. Think of how things have changed
in a week. the enthusiasm and optimism,
the hope into last weekend and here we
are a week later and very little has
changed.
>> I still think about that cartoon meme
open closed open closed and that's
essentially where we are. At the same
time, people seem to have accepted the
fact that this could be a long process
or a longer process and somehow some of
the risk assets [music] are entirely
divorced because they're looking at
earnings. They're looking at the tech
promises that seem to still be going
strong.
>> Where are they divorced? So you've got
the US market and the US economy almost
on an island right now. [music] Then
you've got the rest of the world and
we're looking at the sequencing of
things. It starts in Asia, pain,
continues through to Europe, pain. You
see it in the PMIs. Compare the PMIs
this week in Europe to the US. Downside
surprises in Europe, upside surprises in
the US. For how much longer can that
continue?
>> Well, some people say that Europe is
uniquely terribly positioned. And when
people go to Europe and they come back,
they say, "Oh my goodness, the pessimism
there is absolutely horrific because of
the dependence on oil imports that you
don't see in the United States." You
[music] also had the one big beautiful
bill and the refunds that did give some
power to consumers. As this goes on
longer, people say there will be pain.
Right now, a lot of people are saying la
that's going to somehow get them
through.
>> And buy the NASDAQ. Right now, the
NASDAQ futures up by 0.7% so far this
morning. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Peter Sheer of Academy
Securities with tech leading stocks
[music] higher. John Lieieber of Eurasia
Group on insider trading in Washington
and Vtos Paduto of RBC Capital Markets
as dealmaking continues to pick up. We
begin this hour with tech earnings
helping to offset cyclical threats
building in the energy market as US Iran
tensions continue to simmer. Peter Cher
of Academy Securities writing, "My best
case is that the chatter from last week
of an impending and very strong deal for
the US comes to fruition." Pete joins us
now for more. Pete, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> That's your best case. What's your base
case? base case I think is that this
continues to struggle and it starts
weighing a little bit more on the
economy as you just pointed out. We've
been looking longer dated futures
contracts and you're out to $80 in WTI
out to November now. So that's different
and you're starting in those longer
months September, October, November,
you're actually at the highs of the
whole cycle. So unlike the front
contract which we're still below kind of
those spikes, we're seeing this kind of
push out and it's really hard to figure
out who's in charge in Iran. So I think
that's a big issue and it's really
figure out who's willing to make that
first move. I think when we talk to our
geopolitical intelligence group, you
know, I the consensus view is that we
will probably to end this war have to
escalate once more to actually win that
we will have to go in that we will have
to fight and we will have to put
pressure on Iran. Trump seems reluctant
to do that right now. But we don't
really see winning any other way right
now.
>> Right now we're not trading the economy.
We're trading the market and they're
slightly different things. The economy
is not great in Asia. In Europe there's
a real threat. In the US things are
okay, but they're better than good. If
you look at the US tech story and the
earnings profile of some of the chip
makers at the moment, what's your best
bet in the market? How are you
allocating capital? What are you
advocating for?
>> Well, as you know, we've been talking
about this production for security. So,
we love that. And Intel was actually one
of our names that we picked because we
did think that the US had to grow chip
business organically, domestically. I
think now that's almost you. I've got to
admit I started selling a little bit
ahead of earnings. I'm probably going to
be closed a bit more. It's better luck
than smart sometimes. But, you know,
we've had that great play. I think you
have to start really looking to now to
Europe and thinking that Europe is
finally going to get the joke that you
have to invest in heavy industry. You
have to invest in your own electricity
production. You have to let BP, Shell,
Totel do what they're good at and not so
worry, you know, don't worry as much
about carbon in one degree temperature
changes 5 years from now when the
reality is you need electricity, you
need energy. I I think they start
unleashing some of this. They're getting
a little bit more creative. I think
they're getting a little bit more
organized partly because they're getting
a little bit more desperate. you know,
it kind of takes them years to figure
anything out. They got kicked by Russia.
Now they're getting kicked by Iran. I
think that's going to be really
interesting. So, I want to own the
energy plays. I want to own kind of that
production for security, not just now in
the US, but really heavily into Europe.
>> Lisa, we mentioned it briefly. You see
the pressure on the Europeans and the
economy in the PMI data. You see it in
the markets, too. I think Euro stocks 50
so far this week is down some 3%.
>> They are uh hit in both ways. Number
one, they're energy importers, but they
also don't have the tech story. And the
tech story seems to be supporting the
market in two ways. On one hand, you've
got of course uh just the idea that
there's upside surprise in the equities,
but also the investment, the capex,
which seems to be supporting the picks
and shovels that we see with the
semiconductors and the energy stocks in
the US. And that's been a huge support
because that is existential spending. It
isn't necessarily something that's
coming from an obvious use case.
>> It takes us to next week. So next week,
next Wednesday, we get some big earnings
from Microsoft, from Meta, from
Alphabet. They are the big spenders and
some of them are also cutting jobs to
support that spending. to Lisa's point
when they feel like it's existential and
they've got the balance sheet to carry
on spending are these trades you want to
be on the wrong side of to get on the
other side of at the moment
>> I think we're all kind of waiting to see
if uh software can really turn around so
the Microsoft story I think will be
really interesting right can we get this
turnaround in software and you know I'm
am tempted I don't think I'll get to the
point this weekend but I want to write
the note like you know your costs are
someone else's customers and I'm getting
a little bit worried about the job
situation right we kind of have this
working poor situation we have
affordability that's doing nothing but
getting worse Right. And I know we kind
of focus so much at gas at the pump. I'm
getting increasingly worried about
what's going to happen to fuel costs.
Right? Diesel is such a big component of
fuel costs. We haven't even started
feeling the impact of higher fertilizer
prices on food costs. I feel this
affordability like this working poor and
people who are not able to make ends
meet the way they thought. That income
line keeps creeping higher and higher.
Now you're starting to lay off some
people, you know, very nice jobs in many
of these cases. I'm a little bit worried
that there's a subtext of this economy
that's worse. And that the one thing
we're not I'm still trying to figure out
how to pick this up myself, but I feel
like we are very good at identifying job
loss led recessions, right? We see the
job loss, we start figuring out we know
how to deal with that. I'm not sure
we've had an affordability recession and
despite the fact that chips and things
are doing so well. I'm increasingly
worried that you're seeing pressure on
the consumer in ways they're making ends
meet. They're making ends meet. We got
the bump from, you know, the tax relief
and things. Where are they two months
from now?
>> So, a lot of people will be nodding
along and they'll be saying, "We see
this in the data. We see this in the
sentiment that we have of course coming
out through all the surveys uh that
indicate this fear about affordability.
But then stocks get rewarded for cutting
staff and saying that they're going to
invest in AI instead. How awkward is
that? I mean do you think that that's
going to be the theme going forward that
if companies cut staff wholesale and say
we're going to invest in AI, that's a
buy the stock moment. I think at some
point people start getting worried about
the job losses and not at that
individual company level but at the
national level and say where are we and
you know it was just what two months ago
we were going to have the AI took over
all the jobs and that kind of narrative
disappeared. I think that starts coming
back, right? This is a little bit
concerning. If you're going to lose
these jobs, who's going to take these
jobs? At the same time, you know, you
continue to use AI. You hear about AI
slop and people having to redo work. I
believe a big law firm just had to make
some announcement that they had included
some hallucinations. So, this is not yet
perfect [laughter] and we're treating it
that way. So,
>> things you don't want to read from your
law firm.
>> And again, I keep, you know, looking at
the far side and, you know, we might be
the only species that extincts oursel.
It's like we're sitting there and going
out of our way to
>> the market's encouraging it. And this is
the key point. Lisa makes it. This was
interesting Satrini research a number of
months ago and I thought it was the the
most important point in that research
piece Lisa was that you replace the
operation expenses the opex with the
capex and the market rewards you for it.
So then you drop the opex again you
boost the capex and the market rewards
you for it and that's the labor market
doom loop and you end up in this really
really bad situation where the market's
doing well and rewarding that kind of
behavior and unemployment starts to
climb. Now I'm not saying that's the
base case for you the base case for you
or the base case for me. I'm just saying
that's the fear. That's the fear of what
could happen in the next several years.
>> Well, and essentially if you start to
see companies have to justify their
expense in capex tied to AI by cutting
staff for efficiencies, then what does
that set us up for? I mean, is that
essentially what you see going forward,
Pete? That there's going to be a sense
that companies have to cut somewhere in
order to keep spending on AI at the
speed that they have been.
>> There's certainly some of that sense
right now. And again, I think they're
going to get more and more investment in
the semiconductor industry, right? Think
that's just one a you've got these
companies B you can start looking at
places like Nokia Ericson what in Europe
might benefit if Europe can kind of get
serious about AI you've seen some
smaller companies you know that
Blackbeard I think is a company I own a
small bit of all of a sudden that's
interesting because they're doing
something in the space so you're seeing
kind of everyone I think looked to okay
what else can benefit I think that's
going to drive that part of the market I
think it continues to do pretty well
>> can I just get a final word in on
government intervention Intel talked a
lot about spirit what's going to happen
there will save that conversation for
later this morning. Intel, I don't want
to downplay the real developments taking
place of this company, but how many
companies do you think are re-engaging
with Intel because of the government
involvement and the halo that offers and
maybe they want to please some people?
>> I think when that was part of why we had
the prosack, right, and we concluded
Intel because of the 10% government
stake and part of my thesis had been
Trump likes to win. Trump owns this on
behalf of the American people. So, the
American people are winning, but people
are going to do business with this
company because you want to be on the
right side of Trump. So, I think that
was part of my thesis. I think that's
probably played out very well for better
for worse. I do wish that when we're
making these investments, whether it's
in that or there were some guidelines
set up and that we had some group that
actually does this and was well
organized. That's not how this
administration works. And fighting how
this administration works isn't a good
way to make money. Figuring out how the
administration works and taking
advantage or following it, I think, is
been a good way to make
>> defense contract spirit. Is that what's
going to happen next?
>> No, I do think I'm looking for, you
know, anything in the drone space. the
drone space is just going to continue to
take off. I think a lot of those
companies are private though I'd expect
a lot of IPOs as we were talking
offline. You know, there's going to be
IPOs and everything. I think you're
going to see that and I think surface
drones have not get enough attention and
that's you know boats basically. So you
can look at companies again I think the
ship building industry which is
allegedly why the secretary of the Navy
was let go was he was not focused enough
on ship building. That's an area I think
is going to gain attention. I look at
Brunswick for example, they make small
boats, you know, not military or
anything like that, but why don't they
get involved in this? I think you're
going to see that this drone space
explode and I think ship building really
is a big focus that we need to do. So
that's if I'm baiting right now, I'm
shifting some money out of maybe the
semis that have done so well and looking
for other things.
>> Interesting. Pete, thank you sir. Peter
Chair there of Academy Securities. What
a turnaround for Intel. What a move this
morning in the pre-market higher by more
than 20% close to 30% higher so far this
morning.
>> Intel might make sense from a proc
standpoint trademark uh Peter Sheer. Uh
but I don't really understand exactly
how spirit comes into that unless you've
got you know defense contractors flying
spirit which I don't think any of them
would want to.
>> That was just a joke.
Exactly. But but the truth is that's
exactly the point which is how does that
fit into the same thesis which gives
anyone a sense of exactly what the road
map is ahead for this government to
invest.
>> Let's give an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. We'll come back
to that with your Bloomberg brief. Yhara
has more. Hi Yhara.
>> Hi John. A US sanctioned super tanker
carrying Iranian oil appears to be
attempting to cross the street [music]
of Hormuse. The tanker is carrying 2
million barrels of crude loaded from
Carg Island. It stopped signaling its
location for days before reappearing on
ship tracking platforms. And as you all
were just discussing, Intel shares close
to up close to 30% in the pre-market.
The chipmaker reporting a revenue
outlook for the [music] year that blew
past estimates signaling it's beginning
to benefit from the AI infrastructure
buildout. And President Donald Trump
saying Israel and Lebanon will extend
their ceasefire by three weeks. Trump
announcing he'll host the leaders of
both countries in the near future and
says the US will work with Lebanon to
help it protect itself from Hezbollah.
Dr. Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on a program, insider
trading in Washington.
The whole world unfortunately has become
somewhat of a casino and you look at
what's going on all over the world in
Europe and every place they're doing
these betting things. I was never much
in favor of it.
>> Up next we'll catch up with John
Lieieber of Eurasia Group and touch base
with Amarie down [music] in Washington
DC live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
[music]
Look at that gap. This gap right here.
Equity futures on the S&P totally
unchanged. the outperformance here on
the NASDAQ high by 0.8%. Thank you to
the chip makers once again. Intel
absolutely crushing [music] gear. The
stock is high in the pre-market by close
to 30%. The chip stocks already on a
17day [music]
recordinning run over that period. A
move of more than 40%. Brammo and it
extends this morning.
>> Yeah. And part of it comes off of a
period of time where the chipmakers
[music] hadn't necessarily gotten the
benefit that a lot of people had
expected based on some of the capex
plans that were announced by big tech.
So that's on one hand, but on the other
hand, people are realizing that this is
the one trade that can keep giving
because big tech will keep spending and
they will show that they will sacrifice
their people in order to keep spending
and ultimately these are the companies
that will benefit.
>> In some ways it has been frustrating if
you've sat this out. It's also been
frustrating if you feel like someone's
got an edge that you don't have. And
this event is this morning inside
[music] of trading in Washington.
>> It's a little like Pete Rose. Pete Rose,
they kept him out of the Hall of Fame
because he bet on his own team. The
whole world unfortunately has become
somewhat of a casino. And you look at
what's going on all over the world in
Europe and every place they're doing
these betting things. I was never much
in favor of it. I like it conceptually,
but uh it is what it is. No, I I think
that [music] I'm not happy with any of
that stuff. So, here's the latest of
this morning. A US soldier facing
charges for allegedly using classified
intel to rake in over 400,000 on Poly
Market, betting on the timing of the
capture of Venezuela's then President
Nicholas Maduro with the latest in
Washington. Amory has more. Morning,
Amory.
>> Good morning, John. And it's not just
what's happening in terms of this
criminal investigation, but also the
CFTC is lodging its very own parallel
civil investigation into this soldier.
And this marks the first time we see
that regular take that step when it
comes to prediction markets. It also
comes this own White House sent out a
memo to staff a few weeks ago to make
sure that they are not making these
kinds of bets especially given they have
access to information and we've seen a
number of sizable trades not just when
it comes to trading platforms online
like Koshi and Poly Market but also in
our own financial markets especially
when it comes to massive oil positions
put on in a timely fashion before the
president comes out with a truth social
post and for more on this I'm very glad
to be joined by John Liieber of Eurasia
Group, a friend of the show. John, thank
you so much for joining joining me. So,
the CFTC is also joining in on this in a
parallel suit. Are we going to see more
of these kinds of lawsuits?
>> I hope so. I mean, I think this is
actually a pretty major issue where
you've got government officials who are
using their position to profit and the
proliferation of new markets that allow
that to happen with very little
oversight and very little regulation
means we're going to see more of it. So,
I'm actually surprised the CFTC has
gotten in on this. the oil investigation
that they're uh launching about uh
Trump's Iran attacks. Who knows where
that thing leads? I mean, these could be
some very politically sensitive uh uh uh
investigations. And I think that as you
know, these things proliferate, you're
going to see more of this.
>> Rep. Luna yesterday took to Twitter and
said, "Unless the DOJ plans on going
after all the crooks in Congress
currently insider trading, this is
simply skewed justice." Will there be
more pressure on Congress to also make
sure that congressional lawmakers,
senators, staffers cannot trade? Yeah,
there's been pressure on Congress to
stop uh getting rich off of inside
information for decades now, and it
seems like members of Congress somehow
find a way to keep getting wealthier.
So, I doubt there will be any serious
enforcement. The Stock Act was passed
over a decade ago, and there haven't
been that many prosecutions, meaningful
prosecutions brought under it. Uh I
think that probably congressional staff
are certainly scared about this, but
members of Congress are right now more
or less above the law here.
>> When it comes to Congress and the war on
Iran, there's an important deadline
coming up when it comes to the War
Powers Act. Does it matter to this White
House?
>> No, I don't think so. I think the War
Powers Act, which was passed, you know,
decades ago in order to be a check on
the president's power to do exactly what
Trump is doing in Iran right now, is
more or less defunct as long as Congress
is not willing to enforce it. And
unfortunately, the only enforcement
mechanism they have is impeachment. And
we know they're not going to impeach
Trump. So, what are they going to do
here?
>> Does this change though potentially
after the midterm elections if we do see
a changing of power, whether that's in
the House or the Senate?
>> It could. I mean, the Democrats would
certainly control the House and maybe
the Senate, but you still have uh, you
know, the enforcement here, which is
the, you know, doesn't isn't really
there's no real enforcement channel. And
I think President Trump, who in his
first term disputed the legality of the
War Powers Act as an unconstitutional
check on his ability to conduct foreign
affairs, I think probably continues to
just ignore this.
>> Well, Obama sort of ignored it as well
when it comes to Libya. So, we've seen
this on both sides.
>> Circumstantial like legality, right?
circum circumstantial rule of law where
you care about it when it's your side
and you don't care about it when it's
preventing you from doing what you want
>> when it comes to the war in Iran. Where
is your Asia right now in terms of this
potential offramp talks that are
happening? There was a ceasefire
announced yesterday by the president
when it comes to Israel and Lebanon.
Does that help the United States when it
comes to trying to get the Iranians back
at the table?
>> So, if you look at where the two sides
are right now, the Iranians look pretty
dug in. They've got a flow of oil moving
out. They've got oil revenues that are
much higher than what they originally
budgeted for this year with two million
barrels a day on average going out over
the last month or so. That probably
drops significantly under the US uh uh
barricade that's happening. But the US
is quickly backpedaling off of its
position. We don't think Trump is able
to go back in in any meaningful way
because of the political constraints
that are on him in the United States and
the Iranians know this. So I think the
negotiations you that are happening
right now eventually do lead to some
kind of a deal that reopens the straight
let's say by the end of May. Uh and I
think this weekend is going to be a key
time as the two sides are exchanging
ideas about what exactly the Iranians
are going to do. Probably they stop are
forced to stop enriching uranium. They
probably get some pause over some period
of time and the US probably ends up
lifting some of these sanctions which
looks a lot like the JCPOA that
President Obama did. As you're saying
this, I'm like, okay, I've seen this
deal before that the president then
ripped up and Trump won. Is Trump
willing to take a deal that he in his
prior term would say that is not
efficient.
>> If I were betting on poly market, I
would have lost a lot of money betting
on Trump right now. So, who knows what
he's going to do. But right now, the
signals that the White House are sending
are that they are backing off of their
key demands and they want to get a deal
to make this thing go away. And that's
at least the direction of travel right
now. Trump of course can change his mind
at any time for any reason and uh but
that that's what it looks like right
now.
>> I spoke to the former SNCOM commander
Votel yesterday as well as a six-time
CIA station chief and they said 9 to 12
months
>> until the straight is open again
>> until things are back to normal and
potentially have a deal.
>> Yeah, I think well I mean I think
there's going to be there's kind of two
levels of a deal. There's like the
memorandum of understanding that allows
the blockades to go away and the
Iranians can open the straight once
again and then there's a deal which is
you know you move uranium out of the
country we get inspectors in here's some
cash. So I think that the deal part of
it might take a little longer but right
now we think they are headed towards
some kind of memorandum of understanding
that would sketch out the parameters of
a deal without even if something's not
written. But I do agree that the
disruptions we're living with right now
are going to be with us for a while and
the strait's not going to be fully open
till at least the middle of the summer
if not beyond that.
>> Right. Axio said yesterday that they
were laying more minds. Doesn't the
Iranians want to make this as
complicated for the president before the
midterm election.
>> Certainly that's what it looks like
right now. There's been a lot of
reporting about how, you know, Trump's
tweeting is is disrupting the uh the
negotiations. And the Iranians, I think,
think they're playing a stronger hand.
And I think they're playing a stronger
hand, too. So, I think that puts the
Americans in a very difficult position
in the negotiation here.
>> Well, if they think they're winning,
then why would they back off? John,
>> they want it to be I mean, I think that
everyone wants this to be over and for
life to return to normal.
>> John Liieber, thank you so much for your
time. Of course, that was Eurasia
Group's John Liieber who thinks we're
going into a critical weekend as both
the Iranians and the Americans continue
to negotiate via Pakistan when it comes
to these back channels. John
>> Amory, appreciate the update down in
Washington. More from Amory in the next
hour. Think about what we've learned so
far this week from the Washington Post
and from Axios as well. Washington Post
indicating that it could take 6 months
to clear the mines through the straight
former. And to Emiry's point, Bremo
Axios yesterday, the IRGC laid more
mines in Australia for Murs this week
according to a US official.
>> They want to ratchet up the pressure.
They want to delay this as much as
possible. There's a sense of both sides
trying to create leverage. Unclear what
both sides are looking for and what the
points of pain actually are to bring
them to the to the negotiating table.
One key question is at what point does
Iran have to stop pumping oil actually
shut in its wells because it's run out
of storage capacity. A lot of debate on
that front.
>> Could [music] be close. Could be very
close. Coming up on the program, we'll
catch up with Vtos Baduto of RBC Capital
Markets as tech leads a resurgence in
dealmaking. Plus, we'll catch up with
Yhira. Yhierra's got your morning
movers. Intel, the one to watch,
absolutely soaring as the turnaround of
that company starts to pay off. That
name is up by 28% in the pre-market.
Live from [music] New York City this
morning, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
So, we've had a small pull back from
alltime highs on the S&P 500. We've had
quite a run of gains. Three weeks of
[music] 3% plus gains on the S&P this
week. was slightly down on the week, but
still up by on the month by 9%. That
could be for April, the best month going
back to [music] November 2023. This
morning, a gap opens up and you can see
it clearly on the board. NASDAQ futures
higher by 0.9%. [music]
Equity futures on the S&P up by only
0.1. The reason, the explanation, look
to one thing [music] right now, and
that's chips. Every single company that
we've seen reports so far is reporting
really strong guidance in this sector.
That's why we've [music] had 17
consecutive days of gains for the
Philadelphia semiconductor index.
>> I thought you were going to say look to
one thing and that would be Intel. given
the fact that those shares are up more
than 30% in the pre-market trading. When
you start to see a company uh that is uh
worth this [music] much money, when you
can take a look at a $335 billion
company and that it could gain 31%
overnight after reporting [music] better
than expected earnings because of the
CPUs and the promise to invest really
gives you a sense of just how much of a
moonshot some of these are viewed as
>> just helping to insulate this equity
market from this [music] Brent WTI Brent
crude this week higher every single day
this week. 5 days of gains up on the
week by some [music] 18%. More than that
now that week the second biggest weekly
gain since this war started. It's been
[music] a big week and it's not just the
front month of the futures curve. It's
the later months as well as you look at
the curve. Now this is where things
start to get a bit more fragile. Bremo
[music] it's the difference between a
prolonged shock or a transient story.
This market's been pricing a transient
shock. I would say that this market here
crude Brent [music] WTI slowly starting
to push this out to make it slightly
more prolonged and where negotiations
are at right now would speak to that.
And the key issue for a lot [music] of
economists is are we seeing a prolonged
shock that leaves prices uh of oil
manageable but inflationary. And this is
the key difference, right? I mean, if
you get to $120, $125 a barrel, then you
can get to the uh demand destruction
kind of phase. But if you're at $100 a
barrel for a prolonged period of time,
suddenly that becomes inflationary. So
people have to really try to understand
what that looks like later out because
this is an economy that can handle it.
>> And this is a sneaky move in the bond
market, too. So you've had 5 days of
higher crude prices. You've had five
[music] days of high yields at the front
end of the curve as well. Twos's back to
about 384 up a basis point on the
session [music] up by double digits so
far this week. Now we're some 16 basis
points of the high of the year. The
crazy days of 4% are still behind us but
we're getting closer. We're getting
closer this morning.
>> Well, and part of the reason why is
because people are assessing exactly how
do you measure inflation? Exactly
[music] what is the appetite going to be
to cut rates even with Kevin Worsh the
head of the Federal Reserve. And really,
what does this mean if we have higher
for longer oil prices and an economy
that keeps chugging along?
>> We'll come back to that story a little
bit later this morning as we count you
down to the opening about three hours
away. Let's get you some morning movers,
[music] some single names. Yahara has
more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. There is no stopping Intel
this morning, up 28 1.5% [music] in the
pre-market as it's on track to open at
its highest level ever. The chipmaker
[music] forecasting revenue well above
estimates due to hot demand for its
CPUs. And this really speaks to the
turnaround [music] under CEO Lip Buong
with the conversation shifting from
whether Intel can survive to how fast it
can scale [music] to meet those needs uh
for AI. And sticking with chips because
you are seeing a spillover [music] into
some names like AMD up 10.7%
ARM also up in the pre-market as we see
this historic run as you said in the
Philadelphia semiconductor [music] index
up uh for 17 straight sessions through
yesterday speaking to the strong
earnings we've gotten from T from Texas
Instruments [music]
as you said and as investors look to put
some capital to work uh during the Iran
conflict and we are all chips this
morning with TSA TSMC80RS also rising
three and a quarter% in the pre-market
for a different reason as Taiwan moves
to loosen [music]
investment rules allowing funds to put
more money to work in a single stock
with JP Morgan saying it could unlock
billions [music] in inflows for this
name John
>> Yahara thank you more from Yihara later
this hour on our radar this morning the
US and Iran maintaining blockades of the
straight of MS and President Donald
Trump refusing to set a timeline to
resume peace talks
How long are you willing to wait until
you get a unified response?
>> Don't rush me, Jeff. We're in Vietnam
like for 18 years. We were in Iraq for
many, many years. We were in the Korean
War for 7 years. I've been doing this
for 6 weeks.
>> The president posting on Truth Social,
quote, "I have all the time in the
world, but Iran doesn't. The clock is
ticking." Elsewhere, the DOJ charging a
US Army soldier with using classified
information to make more than $400,000
on Poly Market. The special forces
soldier is accused of placing bets on
whether Nicholas Maduro would be out as
Venezuel Venezuela's leader. And
finally, Meta is planning to cut 10% of
the workforce and won't fill 6,000 open
roles as the company looks to offset AI
spending. Microsoft also announcing it
will offer voluntary buyouts to
thousands of US employees.
>> Yeah. And the speculation here is that
they're trying to get ahead of an
increase in capital expenditures and
saying, "Look, we're getting rid of some
costs on the overhead here by getting
rid of people." And this really to me is
a key issue for the market. Do you
reward that? Is that a positive? If you
cut people to invest in capex right now,
is that a boon for future growth? And at
what point does that reach a stopping
point because people are concerned about
growth uh when it comes to the economy
and when they're worried about the
actual use cases because sensibly it is
to benefit humans.
>> I'd suggest the meta is a drop in the
ocean right now compared to what they're
spending. I also think there's a
difference between saying, you know
what, at our company we've made these
massive efficiencies. We don't need
these people anymore. That's one story.
Another way of painting this is saying
we're spending so much we need to cut
costs. This felt like the latter and not
the former.
>> Well, and at what point do other
companies have to do the same, right? At
what point do companies have to justify
their increase in a AI expenditures by
showing efficiencies that come at the
expense of personnel? I mean, look, this
is the fear so far. We are not seeing it
in the labor data. We are seeing
actually an acceleration in the labor
data. It's important to point that out.
At the same time, headlines like these
from Meta and Microsoft really
illuminate just how much people are
really worried about this and how much
it could become a reality. particularly
in these companies.
>> Four week average on jobless claims
right now. 210
>> 210,000. If I just showed you that, you
wouldn't think there was anything wrong
with this labor market.
>> And we were talking to Neila Richardson
yesterday who said she actually sees an
uptick in hiring particularly in small
businesses. So we're not seeing that
necessarily yet. At what point though do
people start to worry about the
monetization of some of the AI
expenditures that they've been making at
their companies?
>> Meta in the pre-market hike by 0.2%.
That company reporting next Wednesday.
Elsewhere, a surge in multi-billion
dollar deals for chips and AI
infrastructure driving a more than 40%
surge in M&A activity. BTO Paduto, the
head of RBC capital markets, US writing,
mega deals in tech are masking subdued
middle market activity. It's
consolidation of power by those who can
close the AI valuation gap right now.
Veto joins us now for more. Vita, good
morning.
>> Morning.
>> It's good to see you. It's great to see
you. There's so much to be concerned
about right now, but I just want to talk
about the seauite and the confidence
that you see hearing from CEOs. What are
those confidence levels like this
morning?
>> Yeah, so um it's interesting. We've
talked about it before here about the
conference board CEO confidence index
and you know at the end of last year the
last two quarters it was sitting below
50 out of a scale of 100 which means it
was good but there was still some
trepidation in terms of what the forward
looked like. There was a spike in the
first quarter measured at the middle of
February and you got to keep in mind
these are quarterly measures and you
have to think about the exact date of
when it came out. So it was a
midFebruary measure of 59. So, a
significant increase. CEOs are feeling
positive. What are they feeling positive
about? It's their balance sheets are
strong. They understand their business.
They've been operating in a cloudy
environment. And as a result, they've
been very resilient. They're still um
their biggest concern is just overall
uncertainty out there. And if you think
about midFebruary to now, we've got the
Iran war conflict that's occurred. Um I
think there you're starting to see that
in the uh earnings announcements this
week. A few folks referring to it. And
so we think about it. You just talked
about job cuts. One of the questions I'd
ask you is underlying that, yes, they're
announcing that they're making cuts in
specific areas, which makes sense, but
where are they adding jobs? And so, you
know, I think about the marketplace more
about where they're transitioning jobs
to, not necessarily the the the numbers
of cuts in the one place. So, I'd ask,
what's the net number as a result?
Because I think in the meta
announcement, they did talk about the
fact that they were adding in other
areas, which would make sense because
you're changing the skills that you need
in this environment. And I think going
back to the CEOs, they feel pretty
confident because they're looking at
their businesses, they feel strong um
with equity market valuations up, you
have a really strong currency. So when I
look at the you know the various um
barometers out there whatever you want
to call it um you know we've seen deal
volume up year to date by 43% get
although globally although it was an
easy comparison to the first two
quarters of last year and certainly the
second quarter is going to be an even
better comparison to last year um we've
seen co confidence as you've talked
about uh I think AI you know has been a
big driver of that um and I think you're
seeing the companies that are the
leaders out there just continuing to
consolidate and as we'll talk about the
the large-scale transactions that are
happening and that are being considered
are are just unprecedented in the time
period that we've all been around.
>> That last point is the point I want to
pick up on the ones being considered.
How much has changed? And it's not just
financial conditions we need to talk
about here. It's the regulatory backdrop
as well. How much has changed? Yeah,
look uh our our friends in McKenzie have
written about how AI is just
accelerating the deal pace. So they
estimate that um the upfront work on
transactions is probably shortened by 10
to 30% by the use of AI. More
importantly down the road they expect in
a couple of years that integration is
going to be 50% uh um handled by AI
tools which you know when you look at it
just it's making it easier. Um I do
think you know from a financial
perspective uh balance sheets are
stronger like I said the equity markets
are higher so you have a higher currency
but then you've also got a regulatory
environment that folks are looking at
and going this if I'm going to do
something substantial now's probably the
time and if you think about that there's
been some whipssaw prior administration
was more difficult they turned down a a
Spirit airline merger this
administration is is considering
investing there to save that company uh
you've seen a United and American in
rumored discussion whether there were
conversations with the president. When
would you ever have had that?
>> Well, hold on one second. I have to
break in here. Do you think that
actually could get done? That kind of uh
transaction that in the past would have
been absolutely shunned by antitrust
regulators.
>> Look, I'm uh jokingly I'm not a lawyer.
I'm married to one. But
>> [laughter]
>> uh but but I banker married to a lawyer.
Fantastic.
>> Yeah, it's great. Yeah. Uh but so I I
would sit back and say um look I find it
very difficult to think how that would
happen. Um just given the scale and what
they would control and and so I think it
can be discussed but what's happening is
you've had American having to respond to
it. Uh you're certainly having others
now have conversations and what it's
going to do is going to prompt other
parties to consider deals and go well if
that's being talked about I better be
thinking if I'm not already. And so I
think the knock-on effect is more of
what it causes in the dialogues and and
look I we always talk about and have
joke that um M&A bankers in in our our
M&A team same thing always talk about
the strength of the pipeline. So when we
say pipeline pipeline are engaged
transactions and mandated transactions.
So these these are true deals that
clients have said let's evaluate or
pursue this. There was a step function
change in pipelines at the end of last
year where it's stepped up in terms of
quantum of what everybody has in their
pipelines and it's stayed there this
year. What that means is there there's
more transactions and there's larger
transactions. Um and so you know one
other point I would just make is when we
think about the US year to date the US
is up 43%. It represents half of the M&A
market year to date. Okay. But number of
transactions are down 30%. And so we
like to talk about the K-shaped economy.
This is like the K-shaped M&A market in
terms of smaller deals are kind of flat
if you're below a billion whereas deals
that are 5 billion or greater are up
125%.
>> So this is where I want to pick up this
idea that it is resilience to be bigger.
It is better to be bigger. And right now
there is a moment of excitement around
AI that may not be replicated again.
>> Yeah.
>> Is this the window for all of the AI
related names to get in? because right
now the enthusiasm is kind of reaching
its peak.
>> Well, I think the the way I would look
at is we've been talking quite a bit
about, you know, it valuations will get
a pop when someone talks about their um
AI investments or what they're doing in
that. I think this year is an inflection
point where if by the end of the year
you don't have a clear uh AI strategy
that's already implemented and including
in your M&A playbook for example if
you're um out there and you realize that
I'm low on skills in this one area I
need to go acquire this or if you know
you just have the graphic up on the
screen of all these large AI related
acquisitions investments and
partnerships and the like. um if that
strategy isn't locked in by the end of
this year, I think there's a permanent
valuation uh discount, meaning you're
you're seeing um you know, volatility
when folks talk about it. You've seen
some of the companies talk about
earnings um this week that have talked
about the forward pipeline and how much
it's being driven by AI and we're now
starting to see it translated into uh
the results. um they're again step
function to a permanent level. And I
think it's even worse for the folks that
are considered the lagards where if you
haven't cleaned that up, you're going to
be sitting in this lower valuation level
for longer and it's going to be hard to
get out of that.
>> Vita, it's good to see you. Thanks for
breaking it down.
>> Great.
>> Thank you, sir. Vita Puto there of RBC.
Just think about the moment we're in.
The fact we're even talking about
American and United potentially getting
together. The fact that we're even
anchoring the conversation that way to
Vito's point just opens the door to
considerations of things that we'd never
think about.
>> I feel like 2026 anchoring to the
extreme should be the motto, right? And
essentially what else can you get what
what can you loosen up uh as a result of
anchoring to the extreme
>> a page out of the president's book.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yhira has more. Hey
yra.
>> Hi John. Deepseek unveiling its new
flagship AI model calling it the world's
most powerful open-source platform.
>> [music]
>> The Chinese startup is previewing
versions of the V4 Flash and V4 Pro
series, [music] touting top tier coding
and reasoning capabilities. The new
model arrives more than a year after
DeepSeek [music] ignited a trillion
dollar market sell-off.
Warner Brothers Discovery shareholders
voting to approve a $110 billion
takeover by Paramount, beating out a
rival bid from Netflix. The deal offers
shareholders $31 [music] per share, but
still faces antitrust review in the US
and the EU.
And President Trump says he's looking at
the idea of the US buying the struggling
carrier Spirit Airlines, [music] saying
it could be a good investment for the
federal government.
>> So, we are looking at Spirit. It's in a
bankruptcy. It's in bankruptcy court,
and we're looking. If we could get it
for the right price, I'd do it to save
the jobs. I'd love to be able to save an
airline.
The proposal would include a package of
up to $500 million that gives the
government the right to purchase up to
90% of Spirit after it emerges from
[music] bankruptcy. That Chippenberg
brief, John
>> Yhara, thank you. Have we got time for a
Mets jug? Do you want to squeeze this
in?
>> Absolutely not. But fine, go ahead. You
know, you planned all evening.
>> Oh my. Well, I'll caveat that I'm a
Yankee fan and uh No kidding. And as I
was coming in and you know, apologies. I
was talking about, you know, if you want
to relate current baseball season, which
how can you not be romantic about it,
uh, you might think about, you know, the
Dodgers versus the Mets. Would you like
to make a large acquisition and [music]
have it be considered Otani or Sodto?
>> Can I just tell you that's not romantic
to me at all, but but I think that's
Thank you. I appreciate that.
>> I don't think he needed to tell us he's
a Yankees fan, did he?
>> I think that pretty much you started
saying Mets and everyone's like, I know
where this is going.
>> Thank you, sir. Up next on a program,
sitting on the sidelines.
We think the Fed is very inclined to cut
rates if job data weakens, if growth
weakens, but at the same time, they're
perfectly content sitting on the
sideline and holding pad.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Kurt of JP
Morgan [music] Asset Management.
live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. under Savannah this morning
sitting on the sidelines.
>> We think the Fed is very inclined to cut
rates if job data weakens, if growth
weakens, but at the same time, they're
perfectly content [music] sitting on the
sideline and holding pad as long as
there's this lingering concern about
inflation in the background and the job
data still looks okay and growth still
looks pretty good. And so, we're in a
wait and see mode for the Fed. But
ultimately, we do think the Fed will
still get in at least one, if not two
cuts by the end of this year.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Investors are wedding Fed chair JP Pal's
final rate decision, potentially final
rate decision at the helmet at a central
bank. Investors expecting rates to
remain on hold. Kair of JP Morgan asset
management writing, expect no change to
Fed policy and we're unlikely to see any
family fights. K joins us now for more.
K, good morning.
>> Good morning. Well, first off, you know,
I never know what we're going to talk
about on uh surveillance, but I was a
little surprised by the Mets
conversation. I have to say,
>> I was surprised, too. And I think that
we need to bury it right there. But
they've won two in a row, so maybe this
is your time to to be a proud Mets fan.
I'm trying to make you feel better.
>> I appreciate that. Let's talk about the
Fed.
>> Let's talk about the Federal [laughter]
Reserve. I said it could be his final
rate decision at the hand of the central
bank. Do you think it will be his final
rate decision?
I don't know is the honest answer.
>> Does that complicate your ability to
forecast what this Fed's going to do or
not?
>> So, first off, you started talking about
next week and I thought, my goodness,
that feels a very long time away. It
feels like given the volatility in
markets, the news flow, uh the Iran
conflict. It feels like we're almost
daytoday in terms of what's happening in
the day markets while keeping longer
term focused on how we manage
portfolios. So, next Wednesday feels a
long way off already. So no, I I think
the fundamental issue I know you have
your concerns about inflation and they
are well founded. They're in the market
in terms of what you know that we have
to acknowledge those. But the real
factor in the market is what happens to
jobs. You've got some major major
headlines this morning about layoffs in
the job market. The job market's intact.
I mean the Fed's going to stay on hold
either way. Next week there's not going
to be any family fights. I don't think
there's going to be a lot of
discussions. Fed stays on hold. The Fed
stays on hold until we see either a
reaceleration in the job market and wage
growth in particular or we see a
particular a re acceleration in the
unemployment rate. Has the unemployment
rate peaked at 4 and a half or are we
headed back down? It's just that simple.
>> Would you be concerned if the Federal
Reserve changed the way it measured
inflation given the fact that that's
what Kevin Walsh, the presumed next Fed
chair, suggested, you wouldn't care? No,
I mean trimmed is it mean I mean look we
look at PCE we look at trimmed PCE we
look at you know you want to look at
wage labor you can look at employment
cost index you can look at unit labor
cost we're already looking at 437
different ways I I I don't know that it
really gets me too worked up
>> you did tell me that I'm worried about
inflation and perhaps I need to remind
but I guess what I'm worried about is as
Jean was pointing out earlier it's the
longer this goes on the more that the
forward curve is pricing in higher oil
prices for longer and commodity prices
in general have been going up and
they're not going up to such a degree
that would suggest demand destruction.
They're going up to a degree that would
suggest inflation in an economy that
otherwise is fairly strong. At what
point does that change your calculus of
how much inflation can be tolerated in
this economy?
>> It's an excellent point and you're
exactly right that the question is
really on how long does this go on. This
is short. There's no change, right? when
you go pay for gas, maybe you don't buy
that diet coke and bag of chips at the
at the gas station. Um, if it goes on
longer, the question is, does it go
along long enough that it affects
consumers, but they don't change the
they don't change the their behavior in
any way, right? Our view is that you're
going to get demand destruction in some
way. And the other thing is in this case
you've got a arguably one-time supply
shock on the oil side and it's not like
2020 coming out of COVID when you also
had demand driven. You had an
acceleration of things. I would submit
when you start to see airline prices go
up, you start to see other things go up,
consumers re respond. In fact, you're
starting to see that in corporate
America when you start to see layoffs.
So, you know, overall corporate profits
are strong as you've seen. We've had
what about 25% of companies reporting
earnings and I think the vast majority
3/4ers 80% or so are beating. Well, as
bond investors, we don't care as much
about earnings. But you look at the
sales side, revenues are up 7%, profit
margins continue to look very strong. So
that's a that's a pretty good backdrop.
We've got uh fundamental strong balance
sheets in good shape. Consumer balance
sheets in pretty good shape.
Things are solid. Do they get screwed up
by a sustained conflict? You know, on
the other side, we've got, you know,
when I was here a couple of weeks ago,
we were talking about consumer
sentiment. I think the final number
comes out today, which is not a major
piece of data flow, but consumer
sentiment has been weaker than we've
seen ever. So,
>> which is crazy to think about.
>> It is crazy to think about. Worse than
GFC. I mean, I felt a lot worse then
than I do now. But if consumer sentiment
looks like that, that's going to start
to have an impact on how consumers
spend. And there's your reaction
function on the consumer side.
>> Does that mean the 10 years a buy at
433?
>> Yeah, we've had a range. I mean, we we
you've got my friends and colleagues on
regularly and I think Kelsey was on
talking about a range of 375 to four and
a quarter. We've breached it on the top
end, but yeah, we see value in duration.
We see value in high quality credit,
too. I mean, the um IG market and the
high yield market have both absorbed
another extraordinary amount of supply.
And I think I was on a month ago or so
ago and told you all deals are four
times over subscribed in IG and new
issue concessions of four basis points.
This week we're down to 2.4 basis points
of concessions. So there's a lot of
demand now. There's absolutely
dispersion among that. There's a front
page article in one of the major
newspapers today about some indigestion
on supply and I think we've had
substantial supply from the hyperscalers
and then on the data center AI
hyperscaler related so
>> things are okay
>> better than okay maybe K thank you
>> appreciate it K her of JP management
>> fellow therapists both [laughter]
are doing okay
>> I can I can retire now
>> things are okay up next Sarah Hunt of
Alpine Saxon words Bob McN Valley of
[music] Rapid and Energy and we'll catch
up with Ted Modensson of Bed and Joe
Davis of Vanguard.
>> The US economy will still do okay, but
we're going to grow at a slower pace.
>> Inflation is a really careful [music]
watch point. I wouldn't dismiss it.
>> The reality is we still a have versus
have not economy.
>> The longer this lasts, the main
adjustment mechanism becomes lower
demand and lower economic activity.
There's a good chance that now we're
looking at a 2026 where we could see no
rate cuts.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores, the price action looks
like this. Equity futures positive by a
tenth of [music] 1% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ. There's your round performance
higher by 0.9%.
Intel in the pre-market up by more than
20% so far this morning. The good news
from chips keeps on coming and insulates
this [music] market from this here.
Brenton WTI Brent crude higher for five
consecutive sessions on the week so far
up by something like 18%. Brent crude
just short of 107.
>> It seems like at least the US economy is
coming around to this idea that it can
keep powering through even if [music]
oil prices remain at this level. And
that's what you're seeing. And it's
really resulting from the AI trade. The
idea that people will still still invest
in semiconductors, in energy, and some
of the other picks and shovels that are
required to power this incredible
industrial change. And that I think is
underpinning the resilience that people
keep scratching their heads and saying,
"We don't understand. There's a hot war.
Maybe there's a ceasefire. Very unclear
resolution. Oil prices are higher. And
yet the US market keeps shruging it off.
It is this AI trade. It is a
semiconductor." [music]
>> To summarize, this is how it goes state
side. I'm sure it doesn't sound like
this in Asia. If you're up this evening,
I'm sure it doesn't sound like this in
[music] Europe this afternoon, but this
morning in New York, this is what it
sounds like. We can live with this $100
crude. We can live with this. JP Morgan,
Brent at [music] 100, still consistent
with earnings upside. We can live with
this. Morgan Stanley, the earnings
recovery remains intact. We can live
with this. And the [music] earnings
speak to it.
>> Yeah. And one thing that people keep
pointing to is on an inflation adjusted
basis, oil prices aren't nearly close to
the highs that they've been historically
over time. And so this is something that
absolutely people can absorb. I keep
going back [music] to what we heard from
Scott Kirby of United saying that even
though prices have gone up on ticket
price on tickets on airline tickets,
people are still buying. He has not seen
[music] demand destruction to the degree
that he thought he would. That is what
we're seeing in the economy as well. You
can point to inflation and what that
means on the other side. But
nonetheless, this is an economy that
keeps chugging along.
>> Well, let's work through the data. So,
retail [music] sales this week better
than expected. ADP jobs better than
expected. [music] Jobless claims better
than expected. Four-week average
210,000. All of that is good news. the
PMIs better than expected. [music] You
can say that about the US data. I'm not
so sure you can say that about the data
internationally in Asia, in Europe,
>> in Europe in particular. And the PMIs
came out and they were highly
disappointing given the fact that you've
got the [music] one-two punch of both
imported energy as well as the lack of
the technology engine that you see in
some of the other regions, which [music]
again goes to the question of winners
and losers. A bifurcated kind of result
for the entire geography considering the
oil shock that really has
disproportionate effects on different
regions. futures this morning positive
by 0.1% on the S&P 500. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up [music] with Sarah
Hunt of Alpine Sax and Woods as chip
stocks rally. Bob McNally of Rapid and
Energy with crude gaining for a fifth
consecutive day and Joe Davis of
Vanguard forecasting caution at the
Federal Reserve. We begin this hour with
stocks looking for direction following a
strong showing from semis. Sarah Hunt of
Alpine Saxon Woods writing, "It is a
remarkably narrow group of companies
that account for earnings growth this
year, but the promise of AI continues to
drive investor enthusiasm." them. Sarah
joins us now for more. Sarah, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's start with chips. What a run. 17
days, record daily winning streak. Over
that period since the end of March,
we're higher by more than 40% on that
index. What now?
>> That's a great question, but I think
Intel just answered some of that last
night and said, "We see an enormous
amount of demand there. It's it's the
forward looking and it is the question
of are we starting to make money in AI?"
And it looks like we are. like all of
that concern that people had about
return on investment. As things get
deeper into corporations and other
places, you're starting to see people
think, okay, we're really going to see a
return. So, it becomes less about are we
wasting money and more about how how
where are we spending it and how are we
spending it? And I think that you're
seeing that run continue and I think
right now it's hard to get in front of.
>> For every Intel in semis, there's a
service now in software. For every Texas
Instruments, there's an IBM in software.
Are we going to start to see that
divergence pick up again? because IGV
and software had a great week last week.
It's had a terrible 24 hours.
>> It had a great run, but I I mean that's
one of those things where it was down so
far that almost anything looked up from
there. And now I think the question
really is going to be I don't see this I
see this as being an and more than an
or. But the question is you had a lot of
growth in software that was really baked
in for long periods of time. You had a
lot of cash flow. You had good margins.
Now the question is are we going to need
as many seats? Do we need as much of
this? Do we need as much of that? So I
don't think it's going away. But I think
that what people were looking at and the
growth that they were anticipating is
now really under question and I'm not
sure we have an answer for that yet.
>> As an investor, do you reward companies
like Meta and Microsoft that cut workers
in order to afford investing more in AI?
>> I think that's a really tricky question
right now and that that that just came
up from Meta and from Microsoft is is
one of those things where part of the
boom was also supposed to be that these
companies were growing. So laying off
people while they're spending money is I
think going to give some of the
questions about where this labor market
is going some pause. Right now it's
probably you're seeing more hiring in
smaller businesses and lot larger
businesses. So it could this could equal
itself out. But I do think that there's
going to be a question about if you're
only if you're only cutting people so
that you can spend more here. Is that
the right balance? And I'm not sure
where that falls yet. This has been a
lot of treading water in terms of just a
question in general that headline risk
given the fact that the oil story has
kind of been a drum beat through this
entire period of time even as AI stocks
AI related stocks do really well. How
does it affect your psychology as an
investor that you have government
intervention with the likes of Spirit?
You have a government investment in
Intel that is maybe giving an upper hand
uh in this race to semiconductors and
you have allegations of insider trading
making the feeling that maybe there's
some level of a playing field that's
been rigged. Does that together paint a
picture that's concerning for you as an
investor or is that sort of lumping too
many things together that don't belong?
>> Well, I think that the markets are
really big and I think that that some of
those things I don't like to see any of
that. I wouldn't want to see any of
that. I would I want someone to go
policing that, right, that they're
trying to trade on inside information.
But I think that you've got such big
markets and such deep markets. It's
really a question of and and I've heard
this um the last couple of weeks on the
show about how if we didn't have the
Iran thing, would the would the economy
be booming in a much bigger way? If we
didn't have the energy problem, would
this be less of an issue? For the United
States, it's less of an issue because of
the energy you have more energy security
here. But I think that one it it
elevates energy back into the discussion
about whether or not it's an investable
class because you need so much of it to
drive the AI boom that is fueling all of
the exciting things that people are
looking for in the economy and the and
and the economy and the stock market are
are also not always the same thing,
right? So what people are excited about
in the stock market is not necessarily
playing through immediately in the
economy, but you are seeing some better
data that people were worried about,
especially after that badish data. So I
think that you know what what people are
saying and what they're doing right now
is not aligning. And so until that
happens, the economy looks reasonably
good in the United States.
>> I suggest that it's leading to a
reduction in the things that we have a
confidence about, have a high degree of
confidence about, which has led to the
crowding in tech again. And I do wonder
if we didn't have this shock in Iran, in
the Middle East, whether we'd have
broader participation in the equity
market. I think you'd have broader
participation, but I mean, you could
also do the counterfactual of if we
didn't have this boom in tech, we would
be looking at a much worse situation all
over the place just because you didn't
have something where people were chasing
what they thought was going to be higher
productivity and better workflows and
everything else. So, I think the the
dueling narratives that are going on
switch back and forth, but optimism is
definitely leading the pack right now.
And I think that as we get through
earnings, and we have a lot of earnings
next week, right? We got a lot of big
tech earnings and Intel had good
numbers. It's going to be interesting to
see how that plays out with everybody
else. The fact that Microsoft and Meta
are saying we have to slow down on we
have to get rid of people and we're not
going to hire new people. That's a
little concerning in the longer term,
but we have to see if that plays through
to everybody else as well.
>> Piling into tech again this morning.
Session highs on the S&P 500 up by 0.4%
on the NASDAQ 100 briefly through 1%
higher so far this morning. Bremo. Yeah,
when you have moves on major mega caps
of 28 to 30% in pre-market trading,
that's the kind of thing that fuels that
kind of gain in the NASDAQ. Again, how
much are we seeing indexes heavily
weighted to this trade and increasingly
bifurcated from the underlying economy?
>> Next Wednesday is a major day. Federal
Reserve decision and the Fed decision, I
have to say, feels like a sideshow
compared to what happens later on this
afternoon when we hear from Meta,
Microsoft, Alphabet and perhaps Amazon
as well. How high is the bar for the big
spenders next week? It's really going to
be about how both what they say and how
investors take that. And I agree with
you with the Fed, but I think that's
more because the higher oil prices and
the shock through the pricing system
makes it unlikely that they would do
what the market wanted, which was cut
rates. It also pal's been pretty clear
that he doesn't want to raise rates, at
least in the near term. So, I think that
that's it's it's less of a sideshow for
any other reason than it looks like the
answer is they're not going to do very
much. But what happens with those big
tech stocks and how those earnings are
taken and what they say I think is
pretty critical right now with the
market sitting at new highs. I mean that
was such a fast snapback and you know to
your point earlier today you talked
about the fact that last Friday we were
sitting here and the straight was open
and now it's not and we're and the
markets are still at new high
>> we were told it was going to be told. It
wasn't really ever open.
>> No. And that's and and and what we've
been saying all along is show me the
traffic. Show me the traffic. It doesn't
whatever you're saying show me ships
getting through. show me stuff coming
through and then the market can be
happier. Right now I think there is a
little bit of a a sense of it's going to
happen so it's going to be fine. I I'm a
little worried that the longer that
takes the harder it is to recover.
>> Sarah, it's good to see you. Thank you
Sarah Hunt there of Alpine Sax and
Woods. I'd argue around the Federal
Reserve we've just reduced the drama
just a bit. Just track how things are
building. Get away from the hearing with
Kevin Walsh and the back and forth with
certain senators and just focus on what
we're hearing from elsewhere. the
Treasury Secretary in the last few weeks
saying it would be understandable if
this Fed remained on hold. The NEC
director Kevin Hasset and I don't think
he would say it unless that it had
endorsement around the White House that
it's okay if the chairman of the Fed
stays on if we don't have Kevin Walsh
confirmed at the Federal Reserve. Things
have just calmed down I think around the
institution.
>> Yeah. You always like to say benchmarked
to the extreme and it seems like this
whole conversation has been benchmarked
to the extreme. the idea of Kevin Wars
having an office right next to the White
House and President Trump going over
there and telling him what to do as as
uh Chair Powell stays at the Federal
Reserve that seems to be a moot point at
this point and it seems like this is
moving along. There also is speculation
now that potentially there could be an
off-ramp for President Trump to actually
get Kevin Walsh confirmed by the middle
of May when he should be uh getting to
the board of governors. So, a lot of
offramps. It seems like nobody in the
market really cares anyway. They're sort
of saying this is uh you know
>> semis. Yeah, exactly. We're not really
interested in this uh bachelor
>> by chips apparently. NASDAQ futures much
higher again this morning. Equity
futures on the S&P high by 0.4%. With an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Yhira has more. Hey
yhara.
>> Hi John. The US increasing pressure on
Iran with its naval blockade near the
street of Hormuse as it tries to get
tyran to agree to more [music] talks.
President Donald Trump writing on truth
social quote I have all the time in the
world but Iran doesn't. The clock is
ticking. The White House is giving a
90-day extension to a key shipping
waiver, marking the latest effort by the
Trump administration to make it easier
to move oil, fuel, and fertilizer. The
extra time is [music] expected to
immediately help US refiners seeking
waterborne shipments of crude. And as
Lisa mentioned, President Trump
reportedly suggested he would be open to
an alternative investigation into
Federal Reserve Chair [music] Jay Powell
and the cost of the central bank's
renovations. That's according to
Semaphor. The president's potential
shift could [music] provide an off-ramp
to the Justice Department investigation
holding up Kevin Worsh's confirmation.
That's your [music] Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yahara. Thank you. More from Yihara
later this hour. Up next on the program,
diplomacy on pause.
>> How long are you willing to wait until
you get a response?
>> We're in Vietnam like for 18 years. We
were in Iraq for many, many years. We
were in the Korean War for seven years.
I've been doing this for six weeks.
>> Well, I'm not sure we want the straight
formers close for 18 [music] years or
seven for that matter, but we'll have
that conversation in just a moment. Bob
McN of Rapid and Energy joins us next
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
Check out the moves this morning. Higher
by a third of 1% on the S&P 500, erasing
some of this week's losses and
potentially [music] taking us into
positive territory by the time we get to
the opening bell later this morning.
Positive territory for the week on the
NASDAQ flying on the NASDAQ 100 up by
1.3%. Intel up in a pre-market. This
moves [music] crazy. up by more than 20%
even with the rally we've seen in chip
stocks over the previous 17 days.
>> They're getting it done when you take a
look at the results and they're showing
that growth when it comes to their AI
production. You also hear things like
Elon Musk using them for [music] some of
the fab production and they keep talking
about CPUs. There's this question about
TPUs for the more complicated compute
and the CPUs that people use for [music]
a lot of the basic tasks that they need.
They're doing it well and clearly people
are rewarding them.
>> This is the tug of war right now. On the
one side you've got the secular tech
story and on the other side you've got
the cyclical threat in commodities.
Check out the commodity move this
morning [music] pulling back just a
little bit. We're down by a third of 1%
10470.
WTI at about 95 up on the week on Brent
at the moment by double digits and
potentially the second biggest weekly
gain we've seen on crude since this war
started.
>> Yeah. And I would broaden that out and
say there's a tugof-war between strength
in the underlying US economy with tech
and other aspects of it and this higher
commodity price. Proctor and Gamble just
reported earnings beating expectations
for the first quarter, but talking about
a $150 million extra commodity cost.
That said, still maintaining guidance
because guess what? There is so much
strength in the consumer because people
want to look beautiful when they go on
Zoom or whatever else they're doing. Uh
so to me this is this just highlights
the tension here that people can offset
uh some of the potential costs with the
strike they'll
>> sometimes I don't even know how to
respond.
>> Is that what's supporting this economy?
People want to look beautiful.
>> I mean to some extent it probably is
>> driven by growth in the beauty category.
There you go.
>> I mean Instagram although I think that
fake lashes are out
>> single-handedly just holding up this
equity [music] market.
>> I think so. Remember in the pandemic the
lights that people would get to try to
look beautiful and the different filters
and people like beauty products.
>> I'd love one of those lights right now
to be honest with you. Let's [laughter]
turn to the bond market. As crude comes
off session highs, bond yields do too.
[music] And if you get out to the long
end of the curve right now, we've got
10s down to about 431, 30s at about 490.
We've been tracking the moves at the
front end of the curve, higher by more
than 10 basis points this week. Now down
by [music] a single basis point in the
session, but north of 380. It gets your
attention and there are several reasons
for it. Crude's been pushing higher
through the week with the exception of
this morning with moved away from some
of those highs. But you've seen the data
improve as well. ADP jobless [music]
claims, retail sales, things have looked
pretty good so far this week.
>> Consumers have absorbed higher prices
and if prices of gasoline, of diesel, of
just crude in general and products
related to [music] it stay higher for
longer and people are able to absorb it.
Well, all of a sudden you end up with an
inflationary type of push under a market
that otherwise is resilient. And this
is, I think, what the Fed's going to
have to deal with.
>> Let's talk about the Middle East and
Savylvanas this morning. Diplomacy on
pause.
>> How long are you willing to wait until
you get a response? Don't rush me, Jeff.
Uh, you know, guys like you, you want to
say, "Oh, so we were in Vietnam like for
18 years. We were in Iraq for many, many
years. We were in for all the I don't
like to say World War II cuz that was a
biggie, but we were four and a half
almost 5 years in World War II. We were
in the Korean War for seven years. I've
been doing this for 6 weeks." Brent
crude this morning just eking out
another gain of a tenth of 1%
potentially a fifth [music] consecutive
day of gains on Brent so far the
president refusing to set a timeline for
restarting negotiations with Iran the
truce remains fragile joins us now from
Washington for more good morning
>> good morning John yeah the truce right
now does remain fragile at the same time
we do see the administration looking for
some of those tools in the toolbox that
could be used to really make sure that
American consumers are less vulnerable
to what is going on in the war and we
saw that today. Jonathan with the White
House extending the waiver for the Jones
Act for another 90 days. And to discuss
this all, I'm joined by Bob McN of
Rapidown Energy. Bob, thank you so much
for joining. It's not really a surprise
that they're extending this waiver for
another 90 days. Is it helping?
>> It does, an Marie. It helps on the on
the margin. It's a few pennies. You
know, California, especially the East
Coast, it makes it a little easier to
move gasoline where we've got tons of
it, you know, to those regions from the
Gulf Coast. So, it helps. Same thing
with the RVP waiverss, the emissions
limits on gasoline. Those things help
with the margin. But when we're talking
about the largest oil disruption in
history, 15% of global supply ongoing
now, it is a drop in the bucket. Good
step, good to do it, but uh a drop in
the bucket.
>> The United States has been less
vulnerable than the rest of the world.
If it starts to pressure this
administration more here, these if
prices go up higher, what else can they
do? Well, there's not much else that's
good that they can do. There are bad
things they can do in my view, right?
And the two ideas under discussion are
one, go into the futures markets and try
and sell oil futures in some way if they
can find a legal way to do that. I think
Scott Besson above all would know that
would be a folly and a mistake. Um, the
other is, you know, god forbid they
decide to throw up export restrictions
on products or crude like the Chinese
have, like the South Koreans have. At
one point that really was something they
were seriously discussing.
>> Well, absolutely. In 2022, President
Biden looked at that when we had the
all-time high in gasoline at $5 a
gallon. Uh, and one would hope this
administration, which attacked President
Biden for limiting exports, looking at
LNG. It would be quite ironic if they
did. Now, look, they're telling
industry, and we believe them right now,
not on the table. They're not going to
do it at rapid. We have a 35%
probability. But I've been in the White
House during emergencies. If we head up
this summer towards and beyond $5 a
gallon and those walls close in in the
White House, you never can rule it out.
>> Does it make it more likely because we
are in a midterm election year?
>> Well, yes and no. It's uh it's President
Trump's last term, I think. Uh and look,
I think he knows he's going to lose the
House. Uh now, something that put the
Senate in play would be alarming. So on
the margin it does, but at any time any
president doesn't want to be the
president who owns the highest gasoline
prices, a new record above $5 a gallon.
And so they will look to desperate
measures and I I just hope that they
don't do that because I think it would
be counterproductive. It might work for
a few weeks and then we'd be worse off.
>> Let's talk about the straight of Hermos.
You had a great note out talking about
how you don't think this is a leaky
blockade. There was some reports that
some Iranian vessels were turning off
their transponders and getting through.
Are they getting through? They may be
getting through the line in the Gulf of
Oman, but this blockade is across many
oceans. Sentcom is staffed up and ready
for this. We're tracking every boat that
comes out of an Iranian port. Just the
other day, we picked up one in the Bay
of Bengal. We can get them in the
Pacific. So, while we may be allowing
some boats to cross the line, if you
will, that doesn't mean that they're
going to get to their port destination.
I think they'd be picked up later by
other assets we have further a field.
When it comes to the blockade in Carg
Island, the Treasury Secretary has said
basically they're waiting for shutins.
When could we see that happen to
Iranian?
>> We estimate it could be at least a month
if not more. So the big debate is how
much storage capacity do they have at
Carg? We can all see that. That's
filling up rapidly.
>> They're going out though and also buying
empty vessels.
>> That's right. And they have floating
storage as well. However, what's harder
to measure is inland storage. They have
tank farms inland in Iran. So even if we
see Car Island fill up and stop to load
tankers, that may happen. They still may
be able to avoid or delay shutins if
they have inland tank farms that are
filling up. We would estimate two months
at the max. Somewhere between a month to
two months would be before you see major
shutins in Iran.
>> So if this is two months, do you expect
Iran to continue at this posture right
now with the United States?
>> We do. We think they're dug in. They
think they're winning. Their leadership
is fractured, but it's functioning. uh
they know they have President uh uh
Trump by the by the throat here and uh
with regard to Hormuz and their their
strategy is just wait for those higher
oil prices to soften up the president. I
think they're going to stick to it.
>> What do you think the US response would
be then if they're dug in and there's no
movement? Do we just start escorting
vessels through the straight of Hormuse?
>> Escorts come later. I think though we
have to do the military suppression of
Iran's boats, mines, uh missiles that
they have to threaten the ships. things
I think we should have started doing on
the first day. We're seeing reports now
the president has put a a kill order on
these fast attack craft on these mine
layers and it looks like they're laying
laying more mines. So I think there's
two ways an Marie this is going to end
in terms of hormuz we're going to have a
ceasefire that permits free flow of
navigation or we're going to have to
militarily forcibly reopen that straight
and that's four weeks at least if you
start it and stick with it which we
haven't yet. Well, apparently, according
to a Pakistani official, the Iranian
foreign minister is going to be in
Islamabad this evening potentially.
Could we see a ceasefire as soon as this
weekend? Do you think we're there? Cuz
the Iranians, if history is any
indication, like to drag their feet with
negotiations.
>> Absolutely. So, at rapid, we have a 20%
probability on that. You can't rule it
out. The president always has a dual
track dipl diplomacy going on and
military pressure. But as we read the
Iranian side and what's happening here
in Washington, we think we think they're
still very far apart on nukes, hormuz,
and other as other issues.
>> Thank you so much for your time. It's
great to see you in person. Bob McN
Rapidan Energy. Jonathan speaking to us
as we are learning that uh potentially
the Iranians are willing to show up to
the negotiating table or maybe this is
just a bipartisan meeting with their
Pakistani counterparts. No word from
this White House just yet if they're
sending anyone over to Islamabad.
>> Amry, thank you. Let's take that
headline and run with it. Push it
through the market. You're seeing some
response and reaction. Equity futures on
the S&P 500 out to near session highs up
by 0.5%.
Crude out to near session lows were down
by more than 1% on WCI to 94. Brent
crude down by 0.9 to 104.
>> Yeah. Although you pointed out the move
started before we got these headlines
>> about 15 minutes before. Yeah.
>> Which raises some questions. I mean I
think that it's fair to raise that
considering the fact that we've seen
that repeatedly in terms of what's the
move? What's the move? What's the move?
And then we see a headline and we're
like oh that could be it.
>> Yeah. It's getting complicated, isn't
it? And and the first thing you go to is
is the worst case, which is someone knew
something before everyone asked did.
>> You know, the truth is so many people
come in here and they're not going to
talk about it on air, but they will say
that they are concerned about what's
going on and they are concerned about
who knows what. And it is dampening some
trading and some asset classes. And you
just have to wonder how much that's a
drum beat behind all of this sort of
headline whipsaw that we've been
getting. [music]
>> Crude right now WTI down by more than 1%
WTI 9460. Brent crude at around 104. Up
next, we'll catch up [music] with Ted
Modson of Bad with Intel heading for
alltime highs.
So, we've got session highs here. Equity
futures [music] out to 0.6% higher on
the NASDAQ 100 up by 1.5%.
When you've got session highs like that
in the equity market, this is a picture
of things happening in the commodity
market. Near session lows, we were
higher for a fifth consecutive day. Now
lower [music] down by 2% on WTI crude.
Brent crude down by 1.4% 103. These
headlines crossing just moments ago that
the Iranian foreign minister is expected
in Islamabad Friday night and Pakistani
officials saying a second [music] round
of US Iran talks are expected. Some
encouraging signs, early signs. We need
more detail on this particularly from
the US side and the Iranian [music] side
ahead of what could be another round of
talks.
>> Yeah, you can see that the reaction in
markets is there and [music] you do see
the reaction you'd expect which is
stocks higher and crude lower, but it
isn't a massive move that you would see
necessarily a week ago when we were
talking about talks that potentially
were going to happen on Tuesday.
Nonetheless, [music]
the fact that they're still talking does
give a sigh of relief and just helps
fuel the optimism that's been
underpinning this market.
>> Let's get out to Amarie. She's down in
Washington DC tracking the headlines for
us. Amarie, just set the bar for us.
What should we expect now into Friday
evening?
>> Well, I think only thing we can expect
right now is that the Iranians are
showing up. right now where's no
indication that the United States yet
has sent someone potentially though if
the Pakistani officials are saying they
do expect a second round of talks maybe
what you have is the foreign minister
showing up this evening in Islamabad and
then that gives the United States a
little bit more optimism that they can
then send said JD Vance the vice
president or Steve Wickoff or the
president's son-in-law Jared Kushner on
the flight to Islamad because the
Iranians are there in place so
potentially what we could see this
weekend is another round of talks.
Whether or not we get a deal out of this
weekend, that remains to be seen.
>> So, the Iranians have been quite clear
that for them to engage in talks, the US
needs to end the blockade. And Marie,
any sign of that blockade being ended?
>> Absolutely not. And for the first time
in decades, you have Sentcom this
morning tweeting about how there are
three aircraft carriers in the Middle
East right now. And you heard from the
Treasury Secretary earlier this week
that they are going to go after every
single Iranian vessel. And Bob McN of
Rapidan Energy who tracks all these
vessels is saying even if an Iranian
vessel was able to get through the line
in the Gulf of Oman, the United States
is tracking down these vessels anywhere
they go in Asia and they are either
boarding them or taking them hostage
which we which we saw happen in the past
24 48 hours. So the blockade is not
ending and for the Iranians that is one
key element as well as what we saw
yesterday in terms of a ceasefire when
it comes to Lebanon and Israel as Israel
was targeting Hezbollah. That is one key
element that they would need to be seen.
And right now if you look at what is
going on in the Gulf of Aman that
blockade is actually feels like it's
getting ramped up, not winding down.
>> And Marie looking for additional
details. Mh. Stay close. We'll work
through those details when we get them.
particularly looking for a response from
the US side about the potential for
talks here. But this is what we've got
so far that the Iranian foreign minister
is expected in Islamabad on Friday
night. Pakistani officials saying a
second round of US Iran talks are
expected.
>> It's clear that Pakistan really wants
these talks to happen. Let's just remind
everyone that Islamabad's been on
lockdown for about two weeks as they
prepare for these talks. It's a pandemic
style lockdown for security reasons
ahead of these talks. They're still on
lockdown even though the talks haven't
happened. So I'm sure Pakistani
officials are eagerly petitioning both
sides.
>> So stocks right now getting the best of
both worlds. On the one hand, you've got
the potential for deescalation. Crude
pulling back. On the other hand, you got
great earnings coming from the chip
sector. Equity futures up by 0.6%. Let's
get you some of those single names, some
morning movers. Danny has more. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. It's all about Intel this
morning. A big beat from them,
[clears throat] excuse me, and what
they're expecting for sales. I just
[music] want to put some of the
superlatives in context here. So, if
Intel holds on to this gain, which why
wouldn't it, it's going to be opening up
at a new record. It hasn't hit a new
record since 2000. And at the same time,
a surge of nearly 30%. [music] That's
going to be the best single day reaction
to earnings in modern history for this
company. It's lifting the entirety of
the semis sector, which has been on a
tear. This would be its 18th straight
day of gains for semis for the
Philadelphia semiconductor index.
something that it has never achieved
since that index was compiled in 1994.
So AMD ARM all rallying in sympathy.
[music] Some other earnings not as
bright but a much smaller company
Corsera they miss on their earnings.
William Blair does express some shock
that it missed because there was already
some a low bar set for them. Um also
considering the AI disruption but maybe
there is just this feeling that they
didn't raise guidance. In fact their
guidance was kind of towards the lower
end of their range. So, some
disappointment there, down nearly 10%.
Um, finally wrapping things up this
morning with PNG. Another set of very,
very strong earnings. PNG beats their
beauty sector that is the best performer
for them. [music] Organic sales surge 7%
better than any other sector. They do
note some charges though. They have a
charge when it comes to higher commodity
costs about $100 million, a tariff cost
about $400 million. But this thing has
been down 13% since the start of the
war. So maybe that's priced in and
shares move [music] higher by 3%. John
>> Danny, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Danny in the next hour. Let's
focus on tech. Mixed trading in the tech
space. Software stocks taken a beating
in the past 24 hours. Service now
suffering its worst day ever. And a chip
rally pushing Intel towards record
highs. Danny went through the numbers.
That name is up by 29% in the
pre-market. Ted Mortensson of Bed
writing the following. The market is
still viewed to be in the speculative
overexuberance and complacency phase
with very limited fear and no
capitulation. Ted joins us now for more.
Ted, welcome. Some very fiery words
there. I want to pick up on the
complacency. What makes these moves
complacent?
>> I think you know the the geopolitical is
just not factored into anything right
now. And if you look at even the the
blockage of the straits, I mean, uh,
this is really going to affect Europe
and emerging markets. That's not in the
market right now. I, you know, I'm on 70
plus conference calls during, uh, the
earning season, and I I think Q1
earnings are somewhat, you know,
dimminimous. It really doesn't matter.
What matters is the guide and the 26
guidance. We're seeing now companies
actually hint of prudent guidance. You
know, if you look at if you look at the
March quarter, we only had one month of
of war. Now Q2 is, you know, basically
the full monty, if you will. Um, you're
going to see some inputs on some of the
large uh diversified tech uh companies
that have 30% exposure into uh EU. um
they're very energy dependent and you
know some of these models are very very
stale and I don't think the market's
really looking through uh potentially if
this goes longer uh this supply chain is
going to hit sometime in September uh
onward
>> Ted some of these names are also quite
cyclical I'm thinking of Meta who
reports next week as well are they the
parts of the markets that maybe you fade
as well
>> I I really don't think so I mean this
whole AI trade the cloud titans are
basically huge worldwide monopolies
companies that have unbelievable
technology uh uh advantages and quite
frankly they're years ahead of uh any
foreign competition. I think their free
cash flow and their core businesses are
enough. If you look at Google, Meta and
Microsoft specifically, they can fund a
lot of this capex just on their core
businesses. So uh I think you know a lot
of my clients on the institutional side
have to go somewhere and uh it's a free
cash flow game and who who is the
engineers and quite frankly who can push
the AI models forward. Um I think uh I
think those positions are going to be
overweighted for some time.
>> Ted, we've been talking about how in
some ways the tech trade has been a safe
haven trade. people are analyzing what
they can amid the backdrop of a war that
is highly uncertain and uh seems like
it's on a rocky trajectory. Can you game
out what you were just talking about
with supply chain disruptions? Who you
think is most exposed should the
conflict in the Middle East continue for
a longer period of time?
>> Well, one one name that's not exposed
that has totally locked up the supply
chain is Nvidia. And I think if if you
look at what they've done on just
investments and Marll coherent uh
Lamentum uh they put $5 billion into uh
Intel I mean nice billion dollar gain uh
overnight for Nvidia they've locked up
the supply chain also Broadcom Arista
Cisco they have very sophisticated
supply chains where my worry is um all
the industrial and auto companies that
are really caught flatfooted They were
reducing inventory uh at the end of last
year and uh if they don't have the
long-term service agreements uh on
volume and price protection, they're
going to see gross margin contraction.
>> Ted, can you walk us through what type
of supply chain constraints you're
expecting as this war goes on for a
longer period of time? And I don't just
mean a hot war. I mean even the
ceasefire that we see now where you're
not seeing any traffic get through the
straight of Ramuz.
Well, if you look at if you look at
what's coming through the straight um
you know this is a discussion you know
for semiconductors on for example helium
of bromide or neon uh a lot of the
petroleumbased outputs go into
semiconductors. So what what we're
seeing kind of uh going into Q2 and Q3
is some material inflation. prices are
up everywhere from tea glass on
substrates
uh to basically everything. Um and I
think that's going to you're going to
see it in the supply chain but uh the
street may not be totally estimating how
much inflation we do and have in that
tech trade. Let's just put it in
context. uh the big four cloud titans
are spending over 700 billion uh in
capex and then now you put a in a war
and the US government's got to uh
replplatform a lot of weapon systems
that are very highly uh silicon ccentric
there is unbelievable demand and you
know if you do have that straight closed
you're just going to see the inflation
and potential shortages sometime in uh
late um Q3 into Q4. before. So,
>> everybody's passing trying to pass on
prices.
>> Ted, can I jump in? How price sensitive
is that demand?
>> Uh, right now it's not price sensitive.
I think it's going to be price sensitive
in in some of the industrial and some of
the auto uh OEMs that for example, if
you look at Micron last quarter, uh that
their DRAM prices were up 68%
sequentially. That's sequentially.
That's not year-over-year. Um you're
going to have to eat it. And if you're
going to have to eat it on, you know,
like an auto OEM with high um memory
concentrations, it's going to show in
gross margin. You don't have a choice.
Uh and that's the reality on the cloud
titan side. Um it's just a race to AGI.
So, um I think it's a totally different
uh argument.
>> So, Ted, with that in mind, top buys
right now, just to wrap it up, what are
your favorites?
Um I you know [clears throat] I I'm
trying to stay large cap uh really large
cap and uh names with uh free cash flow.
Um you know it's not going to be rocket
science to say that if you're doing a
semi portfolio you really need um Nvidia
and Broadcom in your portfolio. That's
number one. Those are just long-term
buys and they free cash flow uh very
aggressively. I think uh Nvidia had free
cash flow of almost 35 billion last
quarter. Um and then I think again the
cloud titans are uh very insulated I
think um just from a competitive
worldwide standpoint. And then there are
some uh some other names you know that I
I would say are undiscovered yet uh like
a global foundaries that has huge
optical exposure and if lead times are
moving out to 40 weeks they're going to
see better utilization. uh there's other
specific names in the defense area that
I think have three years of 25% growth
just on replenishment and some of those
are more uh small cap in nature and then
at you know I wish we had a pullback in
the market memory and optical from a
structural infrastructure standpoint are
very long-term buys and we've got three
to four years of of of non-yclical
growth in that sector.
>> Ted, this was a clinic. It's fantastic
to hear from you. Thank you, sir. Ted
Morensson there of bad. Love it when
someone's got something to say. And
Ted's got something to say.
>> Yeah. And he has a history. He's done
three tours of duty in the Middle East.
And so he has a real intimate knowledge
of exactly how this works, what the
likely progression is, and what kind of
time frame we could look at. And I think
that really the supply chain disruptions
could be something that comes to this
heavy conductor industry a bit more than
some people are expecting.
>> Inflation and price insensitive demand
and institutional buyers getting crowded
into certain names. They got to be long
something. That's what they're going to
be long right now. The big spenders keep
on spending because of existential risk.
All of these things are the things we've
been talking about and that's why he's
standing with some of those big names.
>> Yeah. Although on the flip side and his
comments about the auto manufacturer is
a really interesting point. How much can
they eat those higher costs and continue
to manufacture at the same pace and how
much can they pass along to consumers.
That's the type of inflation that could
lead to demand destruction.
>> Lots to think about. Futures right now
up by 0.5% on the S&P. With an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief, Yhara has more. Hey Yhara.
>> Hi John. We're following breaking
updates on the US Iran war. Pakistani
officials saying a second round of peace
[music] talks are expected as soon as
this evening. Iran's foreign minister is
expected to arrive in Islamabad with a
US security and logistics team
reportedly already on site.
A US Army soldier is charged with using
classified information to make more than
$400,000
trading on Poly Market's prediction
market. The special forces soldier was
involved in the planning and execution
of the military effort to capture
Venezuelan [music] President Nicolas
Maduro.
And Citadel threatening to scrap its
multi-billion dollar expansion into New
York City. The firm blasting Mayor
Zoramani for using founder Ken Griffin
to push a new luxury home tax. Citadel
executives calling the move shameful,
warning that the massive Park Avenue
project now hangs in the balance. That
should be more brief. John
>> Yhara, [music] thank you. You've won the
election. This is where I really, really
start to get frustrated with
politicians. You've already won the
election. Now start to govern. It's not
about social media videos and going
after people that generate revenue for
this for this [music] economy, for this
city. Delasio used to do the same crap.
You used to ignore the biggest employees
in the city, [music] not meet with them.
Why? What's what's the upside of doing
that?
>> A lot of people are scratching their
heads with that. I mean, essentially, if
you need a functioning city, you need to
have the biggest businesses that employ
the most people and frankly invest the
greatest degree of money. How do you do
that? And that ultimately is going to be
a challenge for this mayor as it has
been for every single mayor that has
come before him.
>> Yep. [music] Up next on the program,
we'll talk about the Federal Reserve
struggling to justify a rate cut.
>> There's a good chance that now we're
looking at a 2026 with where we could
see no rate [music] cuts, right? Unless
we see a a very different story
transpire, it is going to be, I think,
very tough for the Fed to really justify
a rate cut given where we are.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Joe Davis
of Vanguard from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV
up to speed. Let's get you up to speed.
Equity futures right now, the S&P 500
session highs up by 0.4% 4% on the
NASDAQ up by 1.3% on the Russell up by
0.3. So session highs and here's the
why. This comes from reporting here at
Bloomberg. Apparently officials in
Pakistan briefing reporters that the
Iranian foreign minister is expected to
arrive in Islamabad later on tonight
with a small team that US logistics
security those teams are already in
Islamabad for the negotiation process.
The officials have said in a message to
reporters a second round of talks, peace
talks between the US and Iran are
expected as a result of important talks
and discussions with Pakistani mediation
team. [music] So it's difficult to
understand here and I think we need
additional clarity. Are they talks about
talks or are these actually talks and
we're going to find out ultimately I'm
sure from the president's side no doubt
in the next few hours.
>> And does it matter for the market? I
mean essentially uh given the fact that
it took many months and frankly years to
negotiate a JCPOA and other agreements
that the US and Iran have reached a
question here about what the bar is for
the market. Is it just not the threat of
escalation over the weekend that's
enough to get people excited to go back
into risk assets again?
>> Amarie's tracking the story down in
Washington DC. Let's catch up with
Amarie now for more. Amarie, what is the
latest? Are they talks or just talks
about talks?
>> Unclear. We still need confirmation from
the United States on exactly what do
they make of this. Are the talks
expected in the near future or actually
this weekend that coincides with the
Iranian foreign minister's trip to
Islamabad? Even if there is some US
detail that is there in terms of
security or logistic teams, it doesn't
mean that we are going to see the vice
president JD Van Steve Wickoff or the
president's son-in-law Jared Kushner
actually go to Islamabad. We really need
that confirmation from the United States
because this could just be a bilateral
meeting the Iranians are having with the
foreign minister and his team and the
mediator team to set the stage for the
second peace talks. Doesn't actually
mean this weekend we will see peace
talks. I know right now the market is
certainly gearing into that, but right
now that to have that confidence, we
really need confirmation from this White
House. Amry, how unusual is it for the
mediator to brief reporters in this way
before we've heard from anybody else?
>> Well, it's a little odd. Um, but I
imagine they potentially it was going to
come out in terms of maybe leaks. So,
they just said, "Let's set the stage and
brief everyone because obviously this is
highprofile." Usually what you would
have is the Iranians would announce the
trip on their own and the White House
would announce the trip as well. Um or
potentially this could be a scenario
where the Pakistanis are really trying
to cajul the Iranians to the table to
show the United States, look, they're
coming here. They're talking to us. Why
don't you try to get on the plane? We
don't really know what is going on
exactly for the back channels, but
clearly the Pakistanis are doing
everything they can to try to get both
these sides to meet in Islamabad.
>> Sure. Especially because they've been on
lockdown uh for the past two weeks as
they expect these talks to continue.
Emory, you've been talking with a lot of
Defense Department officials as well as
military representatives, and I'm just
curious what is happening on the ground
in terms of preparing for an escalation
or any kind of method to try to clear
the strait of mines or any other
obstacles.
>> Well, in less than 10 minutes time,
we're going to hear ourselves from uh
the DoD. We're going to have Secretary
Pete Hexth and as well as Chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff um Kaine
speaking. I actually heard him speak
yesterday at defense conference in
Nashville. Um, and I would say he was
said he was pretty happy to get out of
Washington for a few minutes, but he was
racing back. Didn't go into the details
exactly what is going on on the ground.
But I spoke to the former Sentcom
commander yesterday, Joseph Votel, who
says the blockade is working, similar to
what we heard from Bob McN of Rapidad,
that they don't see a porous blockade.
There's no leaky blockade. even if
they're not being able to grab an
Iranian vessel right there in the Gulf
of Aman, they are tracking that vessel
as it makes its way through um
Asia-Pacific, really trying economically
to hurt this regime to try to bring it
to the table. Obviously, the blockade is
incredibly important because for the
Iranians, they say they need to see the
end of the US blockade in order to get
to the negotiating table and right now
we are not seeing the end of that
blockade. and Sentcom this morning put
out a tweet saying that for the first
time in decades operational you have
three US aircraft carriers in the Middle
East. So right now the United States
definitely has a posture that at any
moment they could escalate but that
blockade remains firmly in place.
>> We were talking Emory with Ted Mortonson
of Baird just a bit ago and he was
talking about how supply chain
disruptions come into play as this goes
on for a longer period of time. From the
officials who you're speaking to, how
much of a sense of a resolution is there
in the near term they could potentially
reopen the street in the way that it was
open before this war began anytime in
the near future?
It's interesting because I think when
you look at market participants, they're
looking at the screens in front of them
and they're saying this has got to be
just a few weeks or a few months time.
When you speak to individuals who have
either worked in the Gulf or worked in
the even the straight of Hermoose
military officials, this could take
months. At the same time, you have not
just the United States trying to find
the mines that the Iranians weeks ago
laid, but an Axio report yesterday that
they were laying fresh mines. So, there
is not going to be enough confidence in
the shipping industry to want to take
that journey until mines are cleared.
and also that they have that confidence
that they're not going to get um
basically gunned down by Iranian
gunboats from the IRGC or potentially
hit with Shahadi drone. So this is going
to take months to get the mines cleared
and also the confidence from the
shipping industry to go to the straight
of Hormuz. So this is not going to
happen in days. And even when the
straight of moose is quote unquote open
again, like we saw with the Houthis in
the Red Sea, it might take a long time
for companies to decide, okay, we're
going to go back to the normal process
there because they are concerned about
putting their employees in harm's way.
>> Very few want to take that risk right
now. That's for sure. Very few want to
take that risk at the moment. Amory down
in Washington. Amory, thank you. The
equity market fading that initial move.
for off session highs. We're still
positive, but off session highs up by
0.3 to 0.4% on the S&P 500. Very unclear
what's about to happen here going into
the weekend. But I think we're all got a
lot of experience of this now over the
last two months throughout all of this
that things can change pretty quickly
from minute to minute.
>> I'll see your green out on Sunday night
and you'll see mine. I mean, that's
essentially what we're looking for
because ultimately there's always some
kind of drama that escalates right
heading into the open of futures on
Sunday evening. Look, I think people are
watching this saying, "Are we at least
going to avoid an escalation over the
weekend so I can actually go out with my
family on Sunday?" Or is it
>> great today? [music] You get Saturday.
>> Thank you. I appreciate that.
>> Sunday's long gone.
>> You're so sweet. I know. It's true. But
I mean,
>> Monday morning starts Sunday evening and
the whole week feels like one long day,
>> right?
>> I mean, from Sunday evening through to
Friday at the close.
>> You ask someone on Wall Street, how
[music] are you doing?
>> Yeah. [sighs]
>> Pretty good. Coming up next, Tracy
McMillan of Wells Fargo, Serakants of
Cleo Capital, Veronica Clark of City,
Edeni Evandi Research.
>> I think this bull [music] market and
tech has further to go.
>> The market's clearly looking through the
shortterm uncertainty.
>> The market is telling you, look, this is
still maybe a transitory story.
>> If you are not spending right now,
you're going to be left behind. The
shock really supports the need to
invest.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And the price action, your scores look
like this. Positive by 0.4% [music] on
the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ, up by 1.3
for Intel, a wild ride. The stock is
higher by close to 30% [music] in the
pre-market. Stocks supported by this and
this as well. Commodities crude off
session highs down on the session by
more [music] than 1% on WTI just in the
last 60 minutes. These headlines coming
from officials in Pakistan that the
Iranian foreign minister is expected
[music]
in Islamabad later this evening.
>> So we might be seeing talks about talks.
I don't even know what to do with these
[music] headlines anymore. I actually
find them incredibly annoying because
ultimately we don't have a sense of
exactly what they mean. Whether it's
talks about talks, whether this is
progress or whether we could see
reescalation over the weekend. Because
ultimately when you look at the facts on
the ground, they tell one story and then
you hear these rumors about headlines,
you know, headlines about talks maybe
happening in a place that's been on
[music] lockdown for 2 weeks preparing
for these talks. What do you do with
that?
>> So what do you do? This is what people
have been doing. You ignore that and you
pile into US equities.
>> I get it.
>> 80% of companies have beaten earnings
[music] expectations so far. You crowd
into the tech names, the chip players,
the hardware names that are up for 17
[music] consecutive days, supported by
fundamentals and results, Intel, Texas
Instruments, and the big spenders next
week are going to keep on spending
[music] and they're the big customers.
>> And what Ted Mortonson just said of
Barrett, he was saying essentially a lot
of the buyers are price insensitive,
right? [music] This is an existential
risk. We keep talking about that. Expect
those capex plans to only increase from
the likes [music] of Microsoft and
Amazon. uh at what point are you looking
at inflation that happens in one sector
that starts to have ramifications for
the rest of the consumer world and I
think that is where people's minds maybe
will float but it's very difficult
[music] to understand what else to do
when you have these sort of headlines
that keep coming out and giving you
mixed signals and then on the flip side
you see a strong economy with all these
companies they're beating earnings
>> it's so frustrating I'm right there with
you
>> it is
>> and we mentioned when this program
started think about [music] where we
were last week heading into the weekend
We were seeing social media posts from
both sides of Iran and the US suggesting
the Strat [music] former was was opening
and then by the time we got to the
weekend it was anything but.
>> Yeah. And then you've got like Lego
movies and you've got different gifts
and so at a certain point people are
just [music] kind of starting to tune
out and say okay what can we tolerate?
And right now what the market seems to
be saying is right now $100 a barrel in
the United States [music] can be
tolerable. And you know what the economy
can keep going Proctor and Gamble
beating expectations. We talk about the
semiconductors, but this is the
quintessential consumer company and it
is beauty is the sort of uh
discretionary spending that people can
go out and do that beat expectations and
saw the best return going back to 2023.
So people are looking at that and saying
okay if prices stay here we can manage
through this and then we can ignore
these headlines because ultimately
that's what a lot of people want to do.
>> I've tuned out the world back and forth.
Most people have anchored by this belief
the president's committed to a
deescalatory path. Got that? Great. But
I'm really tuned in still to the
consequence and the fallout as it
continues [music] to build from Asia
into Europe, across the airline sector
and elsewhere. And you mentioned the
conversation we had with Ted over at
bed. He also pointed [music] out the
supply chain risk here for other sectors
outside of just tech.
>> Yeah. And people have pointed out the
helium, let alone [music] the
fertilizer, not just the oil uh that
we're talking about natural gas. At what
point does that start to bite in a more
material way? [music]
And everyone says, "Well, if this is
shortterm, it's okay. If it's long-term,
it's not." What does shortterm mean when
we're coming up on two months, right? I
mean, at what point do we start saying,
okay, we've kind of shifted over to the
medium-term or longer term? And if we're
talking about mines that are still
sitting there in the straight of our
moves that are going to be difficult to
remove, that prolongs the time frame
even more. So, it's the physical world
versus the financial world and a US
economy that's strong and they're in a
battle and right now people would rather
look at longer term than try to sort of
game [music] out headlines that seem to
be there.
>> That's the point. It's the physical
world in the present and the future in
the tech world and it's a difference of
time horizon. And we talked about
anchoring what's anchoring investors
[music] right now. Investors are very
happy anchoring themselves to the future
promise. And that's ultimately the job
of equities as an asset class.
Anticipate your asset class. Think
[music] about the future and that maybe
gives you the benefit of looking through
the present. Problem is, as you point
[music] out and we talked about
throughout this morning, it's not just
about the very front end of the futures
curve anymore. just slowly [music] this
week started to build out to later dates
as well.
>> And there's a tension here. How long can
you maintain [music] the strength that's
coming from the AI investment from other
parts of the world and have higher
commodity costs on the other side as the
physical world [music] is constrained
without having some sort of meeting in
between with one either constraining the
other or else inflation coming out in a
big way on the other side.
>> So there is a briefing taking place down
in Washington DC at the Pentagon [music]
at the moment. and Amarie is going to
stand by track those headlines for us
and we'll catch up with her in about 5
minutes time to break down what took
place there. Coming up this hour, we'll
also catch up with Tracy McMillan of
Wells Fargo with stocks rising on
renewed optimism for peace talks. We'll
speak to Sarah Kun of Cleo Capital on
job cuts at Meta and Microsoft and
Veronica Clark of City expecting a Kevin
Walsh Fed to cut interest rates later
this year. We begin this hour with
stocks rising at crude slipping as
Pakistani officials say a second round
of US Iran talks are expected. Tracy
McMillan of Wells Fargo Investment
Institute joins us now for more. Tracy,
welcome to the program. It's been
exhausting for a lot of people in Wall
Street tracking these headlines. Are you
in a position to tune this out and tune
in to the tech story elsewhere?
So that's exactly what investors have
been doing John and what we have seen
here is uh investors looking beyond uh
the headlines and you know that's
exactly what we instructed investors to
do at the beginning of the year was it
was going to be a noisy year for
headlines whether you know the the war
emerged or it was it was something else.
We knew that with midterms there were
going to just be a lot of things to grab
investors attention and we, you know, we
wanted them to look forward and to look
toward the end of the year. We still see
higher equity markets by the end of the
year. Yes, we're going to see choppiness
and we're potentially even going to see
another, you know, opportunity to move
cash and fixed income into equities, but
it's looking out and making sure that
portfolios are positioned appropriately.
>> Tracy, sometimes in your business, it's
handholding with clients to try to keep
them invested. I understand why they
feel uncomfortable. there's just this
itch just reminds them a little bit of
say February 2020 stocks are at all-time
highs and we haven't really seen the
physical pain yet from a major shock.
Why is this different this time around?
>> Yeah. So, I I think it's different
probably in the magnitude and it's
probably different in the the um
duration. You know, obviously COVID was
a two-year event. Um but at the same
time, we did see supply chain
disruptions. Now this time we don't
expect such a prolonged disruption to
supply chains. So investors are able to
look out at say oil futures at 7677
a barrel by the end of the year and
anticipate that you know that by that
point um we should have seen a seen a
lot of the tension subside. So, there
going to be opportunities along the way
and we're telling investors to take
advantage of those opportunities.
>> Tracy, what's long-term when it comes to
this conflict?
>> Yeah. So, uh we would say that longer
term is probably towards the end of the
year. You know, I'm obviously head of
asset allocation strategy where long
term is 15 20 years the full-time
horizon of an investor. But, you know,
right now markets are so myopic that
that we do need to get investors focused
out toward the end of the year.
>> Tracy, uh, what else do you need to see?
Uh, whether it's from earnings next week
or whether it's from the Federal Reserve
to keep your optimism intact given the
fact that potentially this could be a
prolonged conflict, it does eventually
start to crimp supply chains on the
margins.
>> Yes. Yes. That that's obviously very
possible. And so to maintain the
optimism, we need to continue to see
earnings coming through like they have
um so far this earning season. Uh
earnings are expected to be double
digits this year if we uh continue to
maintain that expectation. That should
support equity prices. We're also
anticipating, you know, that uh oil
prices will start to come down. We will
see a bulge in inflation through the
summer that should start to subside by
the end of the year. That's what it's
going to take, I think, to maintain the
optim optimism.
>> Tracy, it's good to hear from you as
always. Tracy McMillan there of Wells
Fargo Investment Institute. I think that
summarizes the consensus viewpoint
pretty well right now for a lot of
people.
>> Yeah, people are looking for strength.
They're looking to the end of the year.
They're saying if we're looking at
longdated uh crude futures for December
at somewhere in 70 to 80, low 80s,
that's good for us and that gives us a
sense that we're trying to direct people
to the strength that we see right now in
markets.
>> Equity futures in markets right now near
session highs up by 0.4% on the S&P 500.
Let's give an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yhara has more. Hey
Yahara.
>> Hi John. We're following those breaking
updates on the US and Iran war.
Pakistani officials saying a second
round of peace talks are expected
[music] as soon as this evening. Iran's
foreign minister is expected to arrive
in Islamabad with a US security and
logistics teams reportedly [music]
already on site.
Israel reporting that it intercepted a
drone bound for northern part of the
country before [music] it entered
Israeli territory. The IDF telling
residents of a south Lebanese town to
evacuate before it struck its target. It
follows Israel and Lebanon agreeing to
extend their ceasefire deal for three
weeks. And just in the last hour, Meta
striking a multi-billion dollar deal to
use Amazon chips for AI. The multi-year
[music] deal will give Meta access to
Amazon's chips unit while the social
media giant works to develop its own
chip. Meta has taken a [music] broad
approach to securing chips for its AI
efforts. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhira, thank you. Thank you very much.
Appreciate the update. Up next on the
program, we get you some morning calls.
We'll catch up with Sarah Kunst of Cleo
Capital on job cuts over at Meta and
Microsoft and touch base with [music]
Amber down in Washington DC to get you
the latest on that briefing over at the
Pentagon down in the nation's capital
from New York City this [music] morning.
Good morning.
It is the question of are we starting to
make money in AI and it looks like we
are like all of that concern that people
had about return on investment. As
things get deeper into corporations and
other places, you're starting to see
people think, okay, we're really going
to see a return. So, it becomes less
about are we wasting money and more
about where are we spending it and how
are we spending it.
>> That was Sarah Hon of Alpine Sax and
Words waging on the tech trade at the
moment and what a trade it's been. 17
consecutive days of gains for chips. The
semiconductor index, the Philadelphia
semiconductor index on [music] a 17-day
winning run. Record winning run and up
by 40% plus over that period. Unreal. Up
by 4/10en of 1% on the S&P 500. The
NASDAQ 100 up by 1.3. Not just
encouraged by tech, but also encouraged
by the prospect of talks [music] in
Pakistan. Now, I'm half laughing because
who knows where we're going to be an
hour from now. I keep thinking about
where we were this time last week. This
time last week, we thought the Straight
of Hormers was reopening and then we
found out over the weekend pretty
quickly it wasn't at all. And here we
are a week later and not much has
changed.
>> Yeah. Although we are looking right now
at oil prices on the week that are
seeing one of the biggest weekly gains
or the second biggest weekly gain in
price going back to the start of this
war as you pointed out earlier. If
[music] we maintain the gains that we're
seeing right now in equities, we will
still be up on the week even amid that
increase in oil prices. So, how much has
this market [music] moved on from the
story in the Middle East? As people look
to tech earnings next week,
>> we are looking for a fourth consecutive
[music] week of gains on the S&P 500
potentially a little bit later on today.
Crude pulling back. We're down by 7/10
of 1% on Bren WTI down by 1.4 94 handle
on WTI [music] crude. Let's take yields
down too. We're down by two basis points
at the front end of the curve. 382 tens
down one or two basis points to about
430. That's the price action. Let's get
you some morning calls. First up, City
upgrading Intel to buy, citing surging
CPU demand. I think that horse has
bolted.
>> Yeah, right. [music]
>> I think that that's pretty much uh what
we're seeing right now in shares.
>> That stock is up by 27% in the
pre-market, [music] but thank you for
the upgrade. Your second call from DA
Davidson upgrading AMD to buy,
highlighting Intel's strong earnings
beat. And finally, Wedbush initiating
Oracle with an outperform, calling it
the quote foundational infrastructure
provider for the AI revolution. Let's
stick with tech. Meta and Microsoft
announcing plans to trim their
workforces as AI costs surge. Sarah
Kunst of Cleo Capital writing, "Nothing
helps morale like frontr running layoffs
by a month to juice earnings." Sarah
joins us now for more. Sarah, welcome to
the program. Let's break this up, Sarah.
Let's start with Meta, then talk about
Microsoft. How are you reacting to the
cuts over at Meta?
I
>> I think that they're not super
consequential. Um, when you look at sort
of the total savings of, hey, we're
going to cut 8,000 jobs. we're going to
pause on hiring for 6,000 more jobs,
right? Carry the one and you still get
maybe a seven to10 billion cost savings.
Um, compared to the hundred billion in
capex they're spending this year, it's
just a tiny drop in the bucket. So, I
don't think that it's going to be huge
and it looks like, you know, the streets
not blown away by it either.
>> Sarah, I was going through your notes
and you're far more interested far less
interested in this and far more
interested in ad sales. This is a piece
of the meta story that I'm interested in
too. There is a much bigger cyclical
component in this company than maybe we
let on in the conversations we have
every day about AI. How important is
that going to be next week?
>> I think that it is the story of Meta,
right? We know that basically everyone
like half of the globe uses Meta
products. The problem is that uh they
only make money when they are serving
high quality ads that people are paying
a premium for. And they have tried so
many different sort of things to figure
out, hey, can we get into the influencer
business? can we get into the shopping
business? The answer tends to be no.
It's that kind of core ad unit that
makes up most of their revenue. And if
the global economy is not great, uh
they're going to see less revenue from
that.
>> That said, Sarah, we saw a headline come
out today this morning saying that Meta
is uh solidifying this multi-billion
dollar to use Amazon chips for
artificial intelligence, talking about
how uh they're going to rent hundreds of
thousands of Amazon's general purpose
chips for its AI efforts. Where is the
AI effort going given the fact that
ultimately yes, it can actually increase
the uh value of some of these ads, but
beyond that, the metaverse is kind of
not there. What's next?
>> You know, it kind of reminds me of the
metaverse. Zuck wanted to live in the
metaverse. Now he has an an AI digital
twin. He moved his desk next to
Alexander Wang, right? I think that
sometimes you have to look at those
things as this is a founder CEO's sort
of passion project. Um, and as long as
the core numbers work, it doesn't
necessarily matter where it goes.
Ideally, you know, AI means that you're
getting a better feed, a more targeted
feed that's relevant to your interests,
that ads are served that are more
relevant, um, that they're making more
money on ads, uh, that the overall
product is better, and we just haven't
seen that yet.
>> Sarah, you said that the layoffs are
non-consequential for uh, Meta. At the
same time, Microsoft is offering
buyouts, voluntary retirements to about
7% of their staff. Do you think that
that is more consequential, a signal of
just how companies are looking to
prioritize capex over human capital?
>> I think that it's interesting when you
look at sort of that that uh the the
kind of math equation of you're getting
money based on how many years you've
worked plus if your age equals 70. This
is clearly a pretty targeted uh kind of
early retirement scheme as opposed to
just mass layoffs. Those tend to be the
people who make the most money um and
who maybe were, you know, have been
incredible contributors over the years
uh but who are not necessarily leading
on kind of the AI focused revolution
that Microsoft is very aggressively
allin on. So I'm not surprised to see
it. Um I don't think again that it means
a ton when you look at their total
workforce. Um, I think it's probably a
natural healthy part of the ecosystem
saying, "Look, these are longtime
warriors who've done a great job. Let's
let them take an early retirement if
they want with a very generous severance
package." Great. I think the bigger
question for Microsoft is going to be uh
one of their other big obligations,
which is open AI and is that still sort
of the the golden goose? Because I
suspect it's not going to be.
>> Sarah, why do you suspect it's not going
to be? I mean what [laughter] at this
point why would you suspect it is right?
You can look at Claude, you can look at
Gemini, you see that that Open AI is not
on the forefront of of the enterprise
business. Um you know their sort of let
adults be adults plan has fallen apart.
Uh you know their management senior
management team who was brought in to
make money has all left. Their senior uh
kind of tech co-founding team has mostly
all left. Sam is getting hit with bad
press left, right and center. I have a
feeling that the Elon Musk lawsuit is
going to be very very juicy. And so it
it's hard to see what's going right with
OpenAI right now.
>> Do you think that means they need to
change their strategy over a Microsoft?
And if so, what's that going to look
like?
>> I think that Microsoft is really good at
their core business, but for the last
few years, their stock price has really
reflected uh sort of the glow the the
the sort of over overflow glow of open
AI. And so I think that that they need
to focus on what they are excellent at
which is enterprise sales which is is
you know their cloud business um their
chips. Those are the things that they
know really well and sort of stop
focusing quite so much on the hype cycle
because while it certainly helped them
on the way up it is maybe less likely to
help them in this next sort of cycle
unless they take it the other direction
and say hey actually let's go find the
next Open AI and start doing more
investing in the next shiny object.
Sarah, do you think that the IPOs of the
likes of OpenAI and Anthropic later this
year, maybe even SpaceX will be a buying
opportunity for this market or the sell
sign that indicates that maybe some of
that hype cycle is over? I think a lot
of my peers in venture capital are going
to be very excited to be able to finally
cash out um on some of those companies.
Uh will it be a huge buying opportunity?
Probably not. Um, we know that IPOs tend
to be a big bounce at IPO. Um, when you
look at the SpaceX's of the world, uh,
the the premium they're trying to
command versus their revenue, uh, is is
steep. It is so steep. And so, I I don't
think that for the average retail
investor, um, or even ETF that that's
going to be sort of this great buying
opportunity. I think it is more uh
private companies saying look we need to
get more liquidity to our early
shareholders to our early employees and
we're also just running out of bag
holders to get money from in the private
market. So we are kind of being forced
to go public.
>> These are not your average IPOs, that's
for sure. Sarah, thank you. Appreciate
your opinion. Sarah Kuns there of Cleo
Capital ahead of some big earnings next
Wednesday. Not just talking about tech
this morning. Also the risk in the
Middle East. We've had some comments
from a briefing of the Pentagon down in
Washington DC over the last 20 minutes
or so. Amar's been tracking that
briefing for us. Amarie, what's the
latest?
>> Well, we heard from Secretary Hegth and
as well as uh General Kaine who's
speaking right now. Secretary Hakee. Uh
the first thing he said was this is a
news phase for Iran and they have an
important choice, a chance to make a
deal, a good deal, a wide deal. And then
he talked about the blockade and he said
the blockade is ironclad. He said
another aircraft carrier will be joining
the blockade. And he said the blockade
is global, similar to what we heard from
Bob McN. If the US Navy is unable to
pick up a ship in the Gulf of Aman, they
will track the ship wherever it goes,
most likely in the Asia Pacific. as
we've seen the US military do and seize
that ship and seize that cargo. Also
interesting, Secretary Hegath talked
about the fact that the United States,
as we've heard from the president, is
less reliant on the Strait of Hermoose
and he says he wants to tell Europe and
Asia the time for free writing is over.
This is interesting at this moment
because earlier this morning, Reuters
was reporting about an internal email
within the Pentagon outlining options on
potentially how they can punish NATO
allies that they deem have not been
supportive of what the United States is
doing in Iran. And one of those things
they potentially could do is suspend
Spain from the NATO alliance. And then
you see Secretary Hegsth really coming
down on Europe and Asia when it comes to
the Strait of Hermoose um and basically
the lack of of support in terms of
actual hardware, mind sweepers, etc.
that they have been willing to send to
the region.
>> Amry, any questions just yet on insider
trading? Have you heard anything yet?
>> No, not yet. I haven't heard any
questions just yet on insider trading. I
am sure that will likely uh to come up.
It did come up yesterday though with the
president given the fact that of course
there is this soldier that was part of
the operation at least a minimal the
planning to capture Nicholas Maduro
earlier this year making that huge bet
on poly market that the DOJ as well as
the CFTC is going after him for uh the
president was asked about all of this in
terms of these massive positions that
are happening uh uh that are linked to
geopolitical events and he basically
said the world is a casino You know,
>> Amarie, thank you. With the latest down
in Washington, we'll keep tracking those
headlines for you. This is the one that
jumped out to me. We've got a truce.
Yes, it's a fragile one, though. And I
don't think you can call it peaceful
over in the Middle East right now.
That's for sure. General Kane, Iran has
attacked five merchant vessels, seize
two of them. That doesn't sound too
peaceful to me.
>> This is a a very difficult situation to
give anyone confidence that they can
actually start sending ships to the
region. I mean that's what a lot of
people are watching is not just the
traffic through the straight of but how
many shipping companies are going to
initiate a voyage to that region with
the expectation that we'll remain open
right now very difficult to get that
confidence
>> who wants to take that risk not many
people that's for sure equity futures at
the moment on the S&P up by 0.4% 4%. The
open bell about 65 minutes away. We'll
catch up with Veronica Clark of [music]
City. Expecting a Kevin Walsh Fed to cut
interest rates this year. Plus, Danny's
going to drop by. Danny's got some
morning movers for you. Energy [music]
stocks dipping on renewed potentially
renewed US Iran talks in Pakistan. From
New York City, you're [music] watching
Bloomberg TV.
the up about 16 minutes away. The
scores, the price action shaping up as
follows. Just off session highs up by
0.4% on the S&P, up by 1.3 on the
Nasdaq. Danny's going to have some
morning movies for you in just a moment.
But Intel's a feature of the
conversation for sure, if not the
feature of the conversation. Intel up in
a pre-market absolutely flying,
supporting this move in the NASDAQ
[music] by 1.3%.
Elsewhere, we're starting to see crude
pull back from highs as well. Supportive
again of risk assets this [music]
morning. WTI Brent down by 410 to 1
percentage point lower. Brent down to
104. WTI down to let's call it 95 on the
prospect. And I stress the prospect
because I've got no idea what happens
after I sign off in about 30 minutes
time. The prospect of talks between the
US and Iran later on this evening.
>> The market reaction I think is telling
and I think that uh this analyst from
Bank of America sums it up perfectly
when they write it's a statement to us
that the fear of missing upside seems to
outweigh the fear of downside. That's
kind of the psych psychological lens
through which people seem to be
approaching the market. You could see
that today just the expectation maybe of
talks perhaps in Islamabad maybe at some
point [music] is enough to give people a
sense that it is time to go game on risk
on green all the way. Perhaps
potentially at some point hear a lot of
that. Going to hear a lot of that over
the next 24 hours, I'm sure. Yields are
down with crude lower. We're off by two
basis points at the front end of the
curve. The 2-year around 381. [music]
Higher on the week by around 10 or so
basis points at the moment. The data has
been good. This Fed is not in a rush to
cut interest [music] rates. And that Fed
meeting next Wednesday could be somewhat
interesting. It's the last scheduled
meeting for the Fed chair. Jake Pal
might not be his final meeting at the
Federal Reserve.
>> I imagine there going to be a lot of
questions about that in the press
conference. So, I imagine the statement
itself [music] might be the risks are
balanced and we're on hold and
everyone's going to say, "Yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah." Let's get to the
questions. Let's answer the question.
Are you going to stay on? What do you
think of [music] the new framework? Do
you think that we're measuring inflation
wrong? You know, how concerned are you
about the politicization of the Federal
Reserve, etc., etc., etc. Is he going to
give some sort of salvo or is he going
to just say, I don't have any comment on
>> inflation above target for 5 years? Was
that a choice? First question. [music]
>> It's a choice depending on the interest.
>> Mind the key. You're not welcome back.
[laughter] That's how that's going to
go. Well, I mean, I think that it'll be
an interesting uh navigation that he
[music] has to do.
>> The oven and bow just around the corner.
Let's get you some single names. Danny
Burgerer has more. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. You laid out what's happening
in the energy sector with those maybe
probable who knows talks happening on
Friday with Iranian foreign minister uh
Islamabad saying heading there. And we
are looking at energy stocks dropping
alongside the price of oil. Oxy for
example, one of the worst fairing this
morning, [music] down 1.4%.
But it is the tech sector that is
dominating this market. I'll get to
Intel in just a moment, but this out
just moments ago, about half an hour
ago, uh that uh Meta will be buying
Amazon's Graviton chips. The idea is to
help support its AI and AI agent. So,
Amazon shares go up 1.6 uh%. It's a
multi-billion dollar contract, but we
don't have the exact details of the
financials behind it. Finally, the story
of the morning for this equity market.
It is Intel a big beat, a big
expectation beat when it comes to the
revenue going forward. If Intel holds at
this level, it will trade at a record
high for the first time since 2000. It's
one of the best postearings day
reactions ever for Intel, up 26% in the
pre-market. It lifts the entirety of the
semiconductor industry. AMD ARM all up
at least 7 and a3% in what will be the
18th straight day for semis. The
Philadelphia stocks index uh trading
higher, a record that it has never
achieved before. John,
>> a win for the US taxpayer. Danny, thank
you. I guess we can say that, right? got
a stake in it.
>> Well, yeah, that's actually really good.
And I I think that some people might say
that it's a self-fulfilling prophecy.
It's [music] sort of, you know, you you
give a little to the company, you back
them with the world's biggest paycheck,
and ultimately you end up with positive
returns.
>> Spirit up next.
>> Spirit's so different.
>> Okay. Spirit is not Intel. Intel I can
get around. I can understand the idea of
creating.
>> You got a problem with Spirit. Let's
talk about it. Go.
>> Okay. Well, I just feel like this
business model has been in question.
They didn't manage to get the Spirit
JetBlue [music] deal across. You could
make an argument that was a huge mistake
which a lot of people are mist are
making. [music] Spirit now is failing.
There are other airlines that are coming
out beating expectations. This is not a
time of wholesale failure on the airline
industry. Spirit needs a lifeline for
the government to bail them out. Is that
a good investment for US taxpayer
dollars and I think increasingly that's
where the focus [music] needs to go. I'm
>> not a big fan of government intervention
at the best of times and on this one
there's obvious push back for this
industry. It's been so mishandled over
[music] the past two administrations
now. previous one blocking that deal
between Spirit and JetBlue. That made no
sense and arguably people are making
that argument now. This makes no sense
either.
>> At a certain [music] point, where is the
rhyme and reason for which companies you
want to take a stake in? Is this to give
some sort of boost to a strategic sector
in the United States and a spirit a
strategic sector for the United States
given the fact that the airline industry
more broadly is actually in one of the
healthiest shapes it's been in a very
long time.
>> In made a little bit more sense, didn't
it?
>> Yes. If you want to sacrifice free
markets at the altar of national
security, people can support that. Crowd
in some investment for national security
purposes, [music] domestic production,
people can get behind that. Spirit,
not so much.
>> I think increasingly people come on and
they all say we don't really get this
one. We'll see what happens. Right now,
the president is saying that the US
could own a stake in Spirit. Let's see
what transpires, whether they have to
declare bankruptcy or maybe whether a
sale will be facilitated.
>> Yes. and maybe the doors open for a lot
of movement in that particular sector.
United American maybe not so much but
maybe some other targets in the mix as
[music] we cut you down to next week.
Some big tech earnings in focus but also
this the Federal Reserve decision coming
up on Wednesday. Mike McKe's got a
preview for you. Hey Mike.
>> Hey John. Well, this is going to be a
kind of a nothing meeting in terms of
what's going to happen. But it's going
to get an awful lot of attention because
it is of course Jay Pal's last official
meeting as chairman of the Fed. We don't
know if he's going to stick around, but
it's going to be all about Jay. And you
were talking about the questions he'll
get asked. I wouldn't be surprised if
what his plans are isn't the first
question because there's no rate change,
no SCP, no dots. Ordinarily, the
outgoing's chair view of what will
happen doesn't really matter because
he's going to be gone and we care about
what the new person thinks. But is Pal
outgoing? We don't know when Kevin Walsh
will get confirmed and take over. So,
it's possible Paul will be around for a
while. Uh the rest of the week is kind
of interesting in that sense. Uh
Wednesday's the Fed meeting, of course.
Uh and the rest of the week, uh after
Wednesday is when the news really hits.
We get the income and spending and PCE
numbers, jobless claims, employment cost
index, and first quarter GDP. All of
that after the Fed meets, so no real
help to them in their decision-making.
Friday, ISM manufacturing sets the stage
for the beginning of May data. Sometime
during the week, the Justice Department
has to appeal the quashing of the
subpoenas in the JPAL Fed renovation
case. Otherwise, uh they run out of
time. Uh they only have 30 days to do it
and that's up at the end of next week.
So, we'll see if they actually pursue it
or if we get this potential banking
committee look at what's been going on
there and whether that has any impact on
when we see Kevin Worsh uh get
confirmed. There's only about eight days
left, eight legislative days left to get
this done before Pal leaves office or
technically leaves office. Uh he'll
probably be staying on. One thing I want
to mention, you talk about the PCE
numbers coming up on Thursday. Uh right
now PCE is at 2.8% and the Bloomberg
Survey of Economists just out this
morning says during the second quarter
that's going to rise to 3.6%.
>> That's going to bring its own
conversation. Mike, thank you. Michael,
thank you very much. Looking ahead to
the Federal Reserve next week, this has
turned out to be so different to the
what we expected 12 months ago. looking
out 12 months. 12 months ago, people
were talking about the prospect of a
shadow Fed chair that would be confirmed
early that would take the attention and
the power away from the current Fed
chair because all the attention would be
on them. 12 months later, what's
actually happened is hardly any
attention is on Kevin Walsh because at
the moment he's going to struggle to get
confirmed because for as long as they go
after the Federal Reserve with this DOJ
investigation, this gets pushed out and
it gets pushed out.
>> And President Trump hasn't taken an
offramp question now. He's been given
another offramp. Will he be given that?
Will he take that to allow Kevin Worsh
to get to the Federal Reserve? There's
also a big difference in terms of the
economic backdrop. people expected boom
time conditions for the US economy and
disinflation because of some of the
effects uh the year-over-year effects
that were running off. We now have the
opposite. We've got a boom time
conditions that's suppressed by some of
the higher prices and potentially
inflation creeping higher than people
previously expected. It is a difficult
thing for the Federal Reserve to get
their hands around and frankly bond
markets are so in a tizzy that they
simply are stagnant.
>> Veronica Clark of City writing this on
the Fed's next move. We expect a
combination of soft decor inflation and
loosening labor markets to help Walsh
convince the majority of the FOMC to cut
rates before the end of the year.
Veronica joins us now for more.
Veronica, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Good to see you. Kevin Walsh did not
really articulate a good argument to cut
interest rates this week. Is that
because there isn't one or because he
didn't want to?
>> Yeah, I think he just repeated this, you
know, productivity enhancements, gains
from AI, things like that that can be
disinflationary. We can cut and not
stand in the way of of stronger growth.
Um, that's the argument the
administration's been making, though. I
don't think that's one that other Fed
officials are going to buy until we see
it in softer inflation data itself. Um
so yeah, he was he was not terribly
convincing at least in terms of the
near-term.
>> Has your timing for cuts changed? Has it
been pushed out because of this shock in
the Middle East?
>> Yeah, we we did we pushed it out to
September. Um but I think what we'll see
and obviously it will depend of course
on what happens in in the Middle East
with oil prices. Um but the focus the
next couple months will absolutely still
be inflation data. We'll get some
uncomfortably strong readings even in
April and May I think. Um, but as we get
into the summer, I do think we won't
see, you know, the substantial pass
through of higher energy prices to core
inflation. Um, and what has happened in
the summer the last few years is that
that's when the labor market starts to
look weaker. Um, and I think that will
repeat and then the pattern has been
that then the Fed cuts in September.
>> How many scenarios do you have right now
on your desk and potential outcomes for
employment and inflation?
>> Too too many, right? Yeah, there's
there's too many. um even if you weren't
even if we weren't dealing with the oil
shock, you know, this is a labor market
that's very unlike any that we've seen
before. And so it's really hard to
forecast when you don't have historical
comparisons to to base those forecasts
on. Um so all we're really doing is, you
know, for the labor market at least
looking at, you know, this is a very low
hire, lowf fire dynamic. It's happened
this way for a while. Um what that has
meant the last few years is you know
starting within the next couple weeks
jobless claims start to rise in the
summer and that you know precedes a rise
in the unemployment rate by the end of
the year just three to four tents. It's
gradual. Um but yeah this a lot of ways
this is an economy that is very
unfamiliar to us.
>> Is there anything about the earnings
that gives you pause given the fact that
we're seeing very strong earnings?
consumer discretionary companies coming
out and saying that demand remains
strong even amid some higher prices and
you have credit card companies coming
out and saying people are still
spending. I mean at a certain point do
you say if prices remain where they are
right now in the energy complex we can
maintain this level of activity and
frankly that becomes more inflationary
than it does but suppressive of growth.
>> Yeah, the the earnings and the survey
data and these anecdotes they're they're
interesting. Um but it's always kind of
hard to translate those to to macro
forecasts, you know, aggregate data. Um
I mean if anything in some cases it
seems like earnings are stronger because
of job losses and cutting costs that
way. Um what we've seen in the actual
spending data the last few months or so
is yes consumption is very resilient.
That's been the story for the last few
years. Um but we were slowing as we were
getting into this year. Um of course we
had a very strong retail sales print
this week. Um a lot of that is nominal
higher gas prices. Um there is a bit of
a cushion right now for some consumers.
You know getting higher tax refunds than
they did last year. Um, but the primary
driver of if people are spending or not,
I think is aggregate take-home labor
income, and that is slowing this year.
>> Veronica, good to see you. Still looking
for rate cuts. Expecting the first one
to come in September. We'll see.
Veronica Clark there of City Research
tracking the headlines out of the Middle
East and continuing to look for some
extra clarity about what may or may not
happen this coming weekend. Amarie has
more from Washington. Amarie. Well,
Jonathan, those headlines from earlier
about whether or not we see peace talks,
it sounds like the foreign minister is
on his way potentially to Islamabad.
That's the foreign minister of Iran. But
this is part of a regional tour. And
this is according to Iranian press. So,
he's not just making a stop in
Islamabad. He'll also be going to Muscat
and Moscow according to this report.
That gives a little bit more clarity on
potentially whether or not we were going
to see a second round of talk to the
United States and Iran this weekend. We
don't have confirmation from the United
States. And it doesn't sound like that's
this trip Abasari is making. It sounds
like he's going there just to speak to
mediators. Sounds like these are talks
about future talks, not the actual big
talk themselves.
>> Amarie, thank you. Down in Washington,
it's almost comical, isn't it? I would
say it's not just clarity, it's also
cover. It's cover to go to Islamabad
just in case there happen to be talks
about talks about talks.
>> A regional tour. I love where they're
going to Islamabad and Moscow to to talk
to uh people just in general because I
want to just see what's going on out
there,
>> right? Catch up with people, get a feel
for things.
>> Yeah. Just take some uh you know, get
some knickknacks, bring them home to the
kids.
>> If JD the vice president happens to get
on a plane, too, and we can have talks,
[clears throat]
you know, happen. It's not exactly
because we want to negotiate any. It
would be comical if it wasn't serious.
But of course, it's immensely immensely
serious.
>> What do you do with this though? Again,
this is a reason why people want to look
past this and they want to say what's
going on with earnings. It's refreshing.
You see people cheering the excitement
to be able to talk about earnings so
that they don't have to decipher these
types of headlines because ultimately if
you ask them what does it mean to be
taking a tour of the region, they're
just going to say I like the long-term
prospects of tech
>> of Intel.
>> Exactly.
>> Open a pre-market by more than 20%.
Futures fading just a touch. We're still
up by a third of 1% on the S&P. With an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief, Yhara has more. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Pakistani officials saying
Iran's foreign minister is expected to
arrive in Islamabad tonight for a
possible second round of peace talks
though. As Anarie just said, it looks
like he's on a regional tour. A US
security and logistics team is
reportedly [music] already on site to
prepare.
The White House is giving a 90-day
extension to a key shipping waiver,
marking the latest effort by the Trump
administration to make it easier to move
oil, fuel, and fertilizer. The extra
time is expected to immediately help US
refiners seeking waterborne shipments of
crude. And Deepseek unveiling its new
flagship AI model, calling it the
world's most powerful opensource
platform.
>> [music]
>> The Chinese startup is previewing
versions of the V4 Flash and V4 Pro
series, touting top tier [music] coding
and reasoning capabilities. The new
model arrives more than a year after
Deep Seek ignited a trillion dollar
market selloff. That's your Bloomberg
brief. [music] John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on the program, we'll
set you up for the day ahead. Plus,
we'll catch up with Ed Yardeni of
Yardeni Research as investors continue
to rotate out of software stocks and
into hardware. That conversation up
next.
>> [music]
>> this whole AI trade. The cloud titans
are basically huge worldwide monopolies
that have unbelievable technology. uh uh
advantages and quite frankly they're
years ahead of uh any foreign
competition. It's a free cash flow game
and who who is the engineers and quite
frankly who can push the ai models
forward. I think those positions are
going to be overweighted for some time.
>> Fantastic conversation with Ted Modson
there of bad. Fantastic conversation you
can catch on bloomberg.com and on the
Bloomberg terminal. [music] Equity
futures right now supported by some of
the content of that conversation. The
power of big tech up a third on the S&P
up by more than 1% on the NASDAQ. Intel
absolutely [music]
flying. Bond yields this morning
slightly lower helped out by this move
in crude down a basis point on twos on
10s. Crude [music]
just about unchanged this morning
settling down on Brent at about 105 on
WTI at 96 on the prospect of talks about
talks about talks. I mean we all know
and understand how [music] ridiculous
some of the reporting has been over the
last two months. how ridiculous and
exhausting it has been and the fatigue
that I think a lot of [music] people
have got in financial markets at the
moment which is one of the reasons why
people are looking past this looking
through it setting it to one side and
just focused on US tech
>> they want to see what they can analyze
[music] not something they can't get a
handle on and that's the reason why
you're seeing each headline have
diminishing returns when it comes to the
market impact
>> big week coming up as we count you down
lots to look forward to in tech as well
coming up next Wednesday let's get to
the calendar on Wednesday does anything
else matter other than this next
a Fed rate decision [music] in the
afternoon. Then in the evening, you'll
hear from Google, Meta, Microsoft, and
maybe Amazon as well. That's like the
week ahead. It's one day, it's
Wednesday,
>> 100%. And I would argue actually it's
the earnings from the tech companies
that matters that much more than the
Fed. I think the Fed's going to be a lot
of noise and politics and the questions
around Fed chair Jay [music] Powell. The
real meat behind this market is tech
earnings, how much they're going to
spend, and how much they can increase
their capex considering some of the
constraints the market's putting on
them. [music]
>> Let's keep it on tech. Intel on track
for a record high at the opening power.
tread is rotating out of software and
piling into hardware. Edardenni of
Yadeni Research writing, "Inves
investors are increasingly betting on
the long-term consequences of the
technology revolution and looking past
the short-term mess in the Middle East."
Ed joins us now for more. Ed, welcome to
the program. Just the perfect summary of
where we're at. Do you believe that's
going to be the right approach?
>> Yeah, I think so. I mean, the market
does tend to to look ahead. Typically,
it looks ahead by by 12 months, but
maybe it's looking beyond that. Uh the
whole technology revolution is not
something that's just going to continue
to power ahead for just the next year.
It's going to power ahead right into the
right now we're in the roaring 2020s in
my opinion. I think it's going to roar
right into the roaring 2030s. Do you
think that there's anything concerning
about the fear of missing out? Seems to
be triumphing over uh the fear of some
sort of escalation in the Middle East
given that there are potentially supply
chain chain constraints and real world
implications that could hamper the
expansion.
>> Well, you know, u my job and I I guess
your job in a sense is to sort of
anticipate where markets are going, but
sometimes we just have to look at the
markets and kind of get the signals from
the markets. And really, it's really
quite incred in incredible to me how the
price of oil just managed to hang around
$100 a barrel in the face of the street
of Harmuz being closed now for over a
month. Uh, and that implies to me that
oil is getting out one way or another.
You know, oil's pretty slippery liquid
and it's certainly getting out through
pipelines from Saudi Arabia to the Red
Sea. I think the administration's kind
of looking the other way and letting
more Russian oil go to China and India.
they're not getting concerned about
that, upset about that. So that's that's
happening. Uh Japan is looking to get
more oil from Mexico and so everybody's
scrambling to figure out where they can
get oil and apparently it's there. Uh
which is why the price of oil is holding
up around 100. And I think at this price
the market here is telling us that the
market can handle it. um especially
since um a lot of the strength of the US
economy is related to the technology
revolution and that's not that dependent
on uh on oil coming through the straight
of Hormuz. It's more dependent on how
much gas you can pump out of Texas and
other areas.
>> And if oil prices stay at this level, do
you start getting concerned about
inflation that accompanies the roaring
2020s in a way that we haven't seen at
least in the past couple of years?
Yeah, I I think there is a I think we're
we're looking at a stalemate situation
in the Middle East. I mean, that's my uh
uh analysis dour every day and every
hour, as John pointed out, things can
change, but I think it's a stalemate
situation. Uh I think the United States
I think Washington feels like we won the
war. The problem is there's nobody on
the other side to to surrender. uh there
there's a real problem with a a lack of
uh of a government in in in Iran. So I
think we're kind of stuck with a
stalemate situation. Uh and yet the
stock market's been remarkably strong
and I think it continues to to do very
well still using 7,700 by the end of the
year for the S&P 500. Ed,
>> you've been you've been writing for
quite a while and I just want to jump in
Ed to squeeze in this question. This
market's had such a strong
forward-looking mindset, impressively
so. And you're right to point out that
it's not just a disconnect. I think
that's probably the wrong word. As you
point out, it's just a difference in
time horizon that we're looking to the
future and the technological progress
and in the short term, we've got this
mess in the Middle East. But I am
curious from your perspective. I'd love
to know what would get markets and
investors to start thinking about where
we are right now and the mess in the
present just a little bit more. What
would change things for you? Well, I
think the price of oil, I think we're
we're all kind of watching it and as
long as it stays around here, I think
the market figures we can handle it.
to to Lisa's question um about
inflation. I think the market recognizes
there's going to be an inflation
problem, but I agree with your uh
previous inter interview that uh it's
probably not going to spread to the core
inflation rate and that we will be
looking at kind of a moderation in
inflation late later in the year. But in
in any event kind of we've been there
done it. I mean the same thing happened
uh you know when Russia invaded Ukraine,
oil prices went up and that eventually
settled down. Last year we had the tar
tariff mess and uh that was followed by
a huge rally in the market. Now we've
got the mess in the Middle East and
already we've got a huge rally in the
stock market.
>> Ed, appreciate your time. Thank you sir
as always. Thank you. Ed Yardeni of
Yadeni Research summarizing that time
horizon difference pretty well right
now. That's going to be a source of
tension for the time being. the mess in
the Middle East, in the here and now,
and the promise of a better future and
better earnings driven by big tech.
>> And it seems like people are getting a
lot of comfort from the fact that oil
prices haven't topped $110, $120. The
new benchmark for okay seems to be
around $100 a barrel. That's manageable
for an economy that has plenty of cash
slloshing around. That at least is the
message from markets.
>> That benchmark for okay has changed a
bit, hasn't it, through March and April.
>> You know, we used to talk about
long-term as being months. Now we're
talking about it being through the end
of this year. That is a benchmark that
keeps shifting and I wonder why it has
changed so substantially.
>> Brent crude this morning 106 WCI 96.
Coming up on Monday, we'll catch up with
Lori Cavscina of RBC, Norman Rule of
CSIS, Kristen Biddley of City, Olivia
Wasa of Apollo. Looking forward to
catching up with you all on Monday. Have
a wonderful weekend [music] from New
York City. Thank you for choosing
Bloomberg TV. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.